If you want your AI videos and images to stand out, you have to know your styles. Welcome back to the series and I will show you how to master some cool looks in Nano Banana and the technical keywords that you need to know to master this [music] looks. This video I'm going to focus on pixels and glitches and digital. On this one I'm going to use Google Flow, but you can use any other tool like Hex Field, Polo or Magnific. Glitch art is a visual style that intentionally embraces digital or analog errors. It is raw, chaotic and beautiful. You have a lot of keywords for this style and some of them could be chromatic bleeding, pixelation or image tearing. [music] Let's try it out. As always, I'm going to use Nano Banana Pro and the first prompt is going to be glitch [music] art style. I always do this so I can get something random from Nano Banana. We get it and it's quite good. On this one it's focusing in more on the digital type of glitch. Now, this style glitch could be anything, but mostly it will be around an analog glitch, digital glitch or maybe a combination of both. I'm going to paste a new prompt and whole prompt it's focusing on trying to get an analog type of glitch art. If I don't specify that I want something analog, I'm going to be getting something like this which is digital. You get this type of a data corruption or pixelation. This is not what I want. I want an analog tape type of a VHS type of glitch. We get it back and notice it's very, very different. This one it's more digital and on the other one we get this analog type of glitch. I got to say it's [music] quite, quite beautiful. Now, let's do the opposite. On this one we get analog glitch, I want to get a digital [music] glitch. This is my prompt. I want an image of a landscape, a mountain and I'm using some very specific keywords to get this uh digital uh type of glitch like digital pixel [music] sorting, sharp macro blocking, data corruption and RGB channel splitting. I'm going to run it, but by using these keywords Nano Banana will know that I want this digital type of glitch. We get it back and we can again write from the scratch see there's a lot of difference between both type of glitches. [music] We get this mountain and the data corruption right here at the bottom mostly and then at the top. I really like the style although it's just very specific. You might not like it because it looks broken. I guess it's just a taste type of thing. Maybe you like it, maybe you don't. Okay, so bits. [music] It really depends on your age. Maybe you played the early consoles and if you did, I'm pretty sure that you remember they had eight bits, 16 or 32 bits and they all look [music] very different. Now, when I'm talking about bits, I'm talking about the processing power of the actual console. Then I'm talking about the family game, the Segas, the NES which is the Nintendo Entertainment System, the SNES which is the Super Nintendo. Then you have Game Boy and a lot of different consoles. Back in the day, this was the actual technology, but now we use it as a very specific style. And again, you might think that they all look the same, but no, they are really different. If I prompt for that alone like eight bit art style, going to just go and copy this and then run it and on this one I'm going to change it to 16 bits. Now, you do have 32 and you might think that you have four, but no, it doesn't exist. You don't have four. When we get it back, you can really notice the difference. On this one, we get a lot less details which because it's eight bits, [music] but if I go to 16, we get a lot more. Now, on another banana, if you prompt for Sega style or eight bits or 16 or 32, you will be getting an interface of a video game. If you do this on Midjourney which is very artistic and you go to the stylize and you go all the way up, you will be getting something super artistic just by prompting the style. But then on a banana, it doesn't work that way. It's a little bit more realistic. If you want to get something more artistic from this style, you need to prompt for it. This is my prompt. I'm saying that I want a minimal eight bit pixel art. Pixel art is like the main style for this ones, but we are being very specific. We are saying eight bits and we already know that it looks a little bit different. Then on the rest of the prompt. I'm saying that I want a beach sunset with a palm tree in very specific colors, like pink and cyan. Let's run it and I'm going to do the same thing, but on this occasion, I'm going to do 16-bits. [music] We get it back with the 8-bit version and then this 16-version. Of course, you have a lot more details. Now, which style's better? Well, it's just completely up to you. What I want to make sure that you understand is that they all look very different even though they all belong to the same pixel art type of category. If I use just [music] pixel art without providing something very specific like 8, 32, or 16, it could go in any direction. And of course, I'm going to give you an example. A detailed pixel art portrait of an aesthetic woman with violet hair wearing a retro-futuristic jacket. So, I want this retro pixel cyberpunk style, low-fi color palette, and I'm finishing with highly artistic and visual. And this is important cuz none of anana tends to be really real. It will maybe give you a console or maybe a screen with someone playing a video game. But no, I want something artistic and visual. We get it back and we get this beautiful type of cyberpunk in Tokyo, you know, pixel art woman. Which one do you prefer? Well, it really depends on your style or what you want. If you want this super detailed type of pixel art, well, you need to go this direction. If you want the real retro vibe type of style, well, then you need to be very specific. 8-bits, 16-bits, and then you have the 32s and on and on. I love this one. This is the absolute extreme of pixel art minimalism. It is inspired by the early Macintosh computers and the Gameboy. It is a one-bit type of art because it uses two different colors, usually dark and white or dark green and light green. And I promise that you will love the style. I'm just going to go here and prompt for the style. All right, so we get it back and this is the style. It's that Gameboy type of interface. Now, maybe the green is a little bit too green. It used to be a little bit more a little bit more pale, but this is just one example. What if we provide a little bit more let's say details. This is my prompt high contrast moody cyberpunk. So I want that cyberpunk type of style. Then of course I provide the keyword to end the style and I want one bit so we that's the second keyword one bit and then I'm providing the type of colors I want to be more let's say faithful to the style. Like before since again nano banana tends to give you a more realistic result. I'm saying that I want something artistic and aesthetic. We get it back and this is a lot more let's say closer to the style I want. And I really got to say that I love this style. Maybe because I'm not that young I'm a little bit old and when I was younger I used to play Gameboy the whole time. So this type of style brings memories and I you know really dig it. ASCII is a purely text-based visual style where images are constructed out of only an amount of certain amount of characters. I mean printable characters. In the 60s and the 70s where computer screens and printers couldn't render actual graphics they relied on a clever arrangement of typography to create a form or to create something. As you might notice all these different styles that we are covering they have a recentish type of history. First I'm going to run the style ASCII art style. Now this one is going if you just put ASCII without saying art [music] style you will be getting just something pretty pretty boring. On this one we could get something really cool and we are getting it. We are getting a cat uh made with you know characters. It's actually you know pretty cool. Let's try a different example. I want the ASCII type of style of course of a woman. But then I'm asking for something a little bit more artistic let's say. I'm asking for a glowing green text on the background. I want something visual artistic and retro. Let's see what we get back. Okay. So we are getting it. If I just click on it we are getting that style. Now I want you to notice that on the prompt, I said that we can only use a couple of characters and at hash, dot, and [music] forward slash. And this is what we are getting. It's respecting those characters, which is, you know, mind-blowing that an AI model can take some characters and create this type of art style. I'm going to do the same, but I'm not going to constraint the model to use some characters. I'm going to provide a little bit more, let's say, liberty. And I'm also asking for different colors. [music] Run the prompt, we get back, and this is really, really cool. And this is why maybe it's a good idea to provide colors. If it's just black and white, I mean, it's fine if that's what you like, but when you blend it with different colors, you get something super, super artistic. Voxel is short for volumetric pixel. This is actually quite simple. It's essentially a 3D uh pixel. So, the voxel art takes the grid, the actually 2D type of pixel, and then just turns it into something, you know, three-dimensional. And you know this style. You're going to see it right now. If I go to the actual prompt, and I prompt for voxel art, I'm going to just run it. Just by prompting this style alone, we will be getting something very similar to what you see on Minecraft. I mean, it's just a pixel, but we make it 3D, so it's a cube. So, yeah, Minecraft. And if we are going to get back, this is what we get. And yeah, this is like a, you know, let's say, old-school Minecraft, but this is pretty much the style. We are working with cubes, but we have them on a three-dimensional type of space. Is this good? Well, maybe not. If we provide more instructions and we try to make it more artistic, we will be getting something a bit more visual. So, I will go right here and paste a new prompt. A detailed voxel art diorama of a lush floating island at sunset. So, that's artistic enough already. Complex cube geometry, soft volume lighting, miniature aesthetic, highly artistic. Let's run it, and hopefully we get something a little bit better than this Minecraft type of style. We get back, and as you can see, it's a lot more artistic. We are still working with three-dimensional cubes, but again, it looks really [music] artistic if you ask me. Okay, so that's it. If you liked all this and you learned something new, leave a like, subscribe, and leave a comment. Don't be a stranger. &gt;&gt; [music] [music]
