If you want your videos and images to stand out, you have to know your styles. Welcome back to this series and today we are diving into photography styles episode number four. Today I'll be using Polo AI, but you can use any other service like Hexfield, FreePik, or Flow. Chevalier With double exposure, you layer two different images on one single frame. And what you get back is a surreal, awesome result. Let's give it a go. I will go to the prompt and just prompt for double exposure style. That's it. What did I tell you? This is what we get back. Highly aesthetic, super awesome result. And I got to say, this is one of my favorite techniques. Now, since you are layering, you need to provide what you are layering. You don't need to go crazy with the prompt, but you need to propose at the very least two little things. In this case, it's a wolf howling and snowy mountains. And I'm going to leave Nana Banana to do the rest for me. We get what we ask for, which is a wolf and then some snowy mountains. Still, this is good, but not that good. When you provide a more detailed prompt with what you want, you will be getting better results. For example, I'm going to run this. I want the double exposure, of course, of a woman in a night city. But then I am providing more details about it, like the urban lights, surreal aesthetic, high contrast. So, I'm just providing a little bit more. Oh, if you want the prompts I'm using right here in this video, comment prompt down below and I will send you the link. Once we get it back, we get the city lights and the woman's profile and, you know, it's surreal aesthetic and we get just what we ask for. All right, so movies. The intro of True Detective, I mean the series, is a very good example of this technique. I mean the season [music] 1 and the 3, the other ones are just awful. Another example, which is a classic that you need to see, is Apocalypse Now. The intro of that movie uses this technique. Montage What is so different about this one? Nothing. And that is exactly the point. This is the anti-stock type of stage photos. Let's run prompt and you will see what I mean. I'm going to go here and say I'm Unsplash style of a man's face. When we get it, we can see that the point of this is realism, but it's not super greedy like a street photography. This is a candid type of style, but it's more color graded, maybe bright, diffused. Sometimes you will be getting something uh in golden hour. This is the vibe. It's not sad, it's not street photography, it's almost like happy. And we see this by looking the face of the subject. Is he happy? Is he sad? We don't know. So, it's like the middle ground between stock photos and realism. Let's prompt for something a little bit more complete. It's a woman working on a sun-drenched cafe, soft window light, shallow depth [music] field, Unsplash aesthetic. We get the woman just working. We have the soft and everything just looks nice. And again, she's happy. This one looks like a stock photo that you buy on Getty Images, but it leans a little bit more towards realism, but not that much. Movies. This one is a tough one. If I have to give you an example, I would say Nomadland. Great, great movie. Frances McDormand should win the Oscar every year. The Oscars should be like, Frances McDormand, you win everything. That's it. Good night. A different example is Her. A lot of the scenes have this golden hour, he's happy, realism type of vibe. Avant-garde One fun thing that you can do on Nana Banana is the before and [music] after. This is also called transformation. I mean, it's not a style, I guess, but it's fun. I'm going to prompt for something very simple, a skinny man before and [music] after. And then we get the before and the after. I mean, you need to be a little bit more specific. Since I said skinny, the model is just assuming that I want this type of transformation. This could be anything like cars, houses, or &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; cats. Now, the 50/50 is the classic before and after, but you do have other variations. For example, a stray cat diagonal wipe before and after style. You can also say transformation style, that will work, too. Let's try an abandoned house horizontal split before and after style. This style will give you the font [music] of before and after. If you don't want it, you can just prompt it out. Let's see the cat right in the street and the model noticed that it understood that it's a stray cat and then, of course, the after, he was rescued and now [music] he lives, uh you know, comfy. And then we get the abandoned house and the transformation. And it's just that simple. Is this super useful for your productions? I don't know, maybe not. It really depends, [music] but it is fun. Déjà vu Clock terms. A lot of people confuse the golden hour term with, "Oh, I want sun." But there is a lot more than golden hour. Just in case, if you don't know what golden hour is, I will go here and say a woman walking golden hour. This is a warm type of style, [music] before sunrise or before sunset. I mean, the sun it's not fully up. For that, you have a completely different term. Same example, a woman walking high noon. We get it and we can see it's completely different as the other one. We still have sunlight, but it's not warm, it's just bright and harsh. This is noon, the sun is fully up. Do you have terms for the other positions of the sun? Yeah, of course. You have the blue hour. Same example, a woman walking. There we go, perfect example. It is cold, blue, and purple. This one is before sunrise and after sunset. The sun it's below the horizon and this is important because you have a different term. A woman walking civil twilight. We get it and this one is like an in-between. [music] The sun it's not fully present, but the sky is still a bit bright, not fully [music] dark. You might think it's very similar to the blue hour. And yeah, it is, they are close. The blue hour, we could have a little bit less of the sun right here. These ones are just like the classical ones. You have a few more, but they are a little bit more specific. Chocolat mousse Anything could be abstract. Yes, but you do have some rules. Usually, when you create something, you focus on a thing. Could be a subject, a dog, a cat, whatever. [music] The focus of abstract is on the texture, the colors, the shape, and the form. To keep it simple, we could go here and say abstract photography. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; The thing is that this could be a lot of things. We are not being very specific. We could get anything. [music] And I guess that's the point. We get it back with a combination of, let's say, liquid and different colors. This is fun, but we can prompt for something a little bit more specific. [music] One of my favorites is a geometrical type of shape. For example, I want a photography of a concrete staircase with a long angle perspective [music] and very clear lines. While this one is going, I got to say that you will love this [music] shot. We get it back and this is what I wanted, concrete staircase, which is, you know, very cold, but we have this artistic abstract [music] type of style, especially with all the different lines and shapes. You can use anything for this, like [music] textures, uh fabrics, liquids, whatever. To finish with a bang, I want oil water macro textures and then a little bit of depth of field. There you go. Now you have a screensaver. [music] And I love this style because you can throw anything at it and just get something creative. All right, so movies. You have a ton of movies because this is a resource. But if I have to name a modern one, uh I would say [music] Ash. I don't think this is a great movie, it's good, but you have this abstract concept all over the place. That's it. If you liked this and you learned something new, leave a like, subscribe, and [music] leave a comment. Don't be a stranger. &gt;&gt; [music] [music]
