URL_FUENTE: https://www.hotjar.com/landing-page-optimization/examples/
Landing page optimizationHow to optimize landing pagesLPO ChecklistLanding page optimization toolsLPO ExamplesLanding page tests
Landing page optimization
How to optimize landing pages
LPO Checklist
Landing page optimization tools
LPO Examples
Landing page tests
Guide
6 real-life landing page optimization examples in action
Table of contents
6 highly effective landing page optimization examples to learn from
Next steps to landing page optimization
FAQs about landing page optimization examples
Published
April 27, 2023
Last Updated
September 17, 2025
Share article

Reviewing landing page optimization examples is one of the best ways to learn actionable strategies to improve your own landing pages. 

Today, we’ll break down a variety of real-world examples, showing you which techniques work best and how to apply them. 

By the end, you’ll be ready to successfully optimize your own landing pages.

Use Contentsquare to improve your landing pages

Use Contentsquare’s experience intelligence tools to understand why users behave the way they do on your landing pages—and find solutions that increase conversions.

Sign up
Sign up
6 highly effective landing page optimization examples to learn from

As you review these practical landing page optimization (LPO) examples, take note of which strategies and tactics you can implement on your landing pages to replicate their results.

1. How ClickMechanic used heatmaps to increase conversions by 15%

Thanks to heatmaps, online mechanic booking service ClickMechanic saw that the vast majority of their landing page visitors never even scrolled beyond the hero (the main image on the homepage). 

As a result, the ClickMechanic team focused on redesigning the content above the fold, instead of giving the entire page a revamp. 

Not only did this increase conversion rates by 15%, ClickMechanic also saved money on page design as they didn’t need to redo the entire page from scratch. 

Why this LPO strategy works

Visual user insights—like those that come from analyzing heatmaps—help you spot simple ways to improve your user’s experience and deliver small incremental changes that have a big impact.

Heatmaps visually represent where visitors click, move, and scroll, helping you understand how they really engage with your site, so you know which landing page elements to optimize to improve their experience.

An example of a Contentsquare heatmap

2. How CCV Shop used behavior analytics to identify issues and increase conversions by 38%

Landing pages are crucial to webshop platform CCV Shop—they use them to generate leads for their online storefront business, which helps over 17,000 entrepreneurs run their ecommerce stores. 

When it comes to optimizing these landing pages, CCV Shop leaned on two different tools to observe and analyze user actions, understand their prospective customers, and increase conversions:

Heatmaps: first, CCV Shop used heatmaps to see the big picture—where customers clicked in aggregate, how far they scrolled, and how they interacted with various elements.

Session Replays: then, they observed individual session replays of users interacting with their various landing pages, on different browser versions or screen resolutions.

Lastly, the team used the insights from the above tools to optimize their landing pages, A/B test them, and double down on what worked.

As a result, the 38% increase in conversions inched them closer to their 2% conversion goal.

Why this LPO strategy works

With user behavior at the center of your landing page optimization strategy, your creations are guaranteed to resonate.

Platforms like Contentsquare give you a front-row seat to how your audience interacts with your top-performing campaigns. They help inform your next optimizations with insight into users' habits, behaviors, frustrations, and needs, so you know exactly what to prioritize.

As you see the landing page experience through your users' eyes, you get an unbiased view of your work—what hits the mark and, more importantly, what doesn’t. This type of compelling data helps you validate your LPO strategy, make changes to streamline the user journey, and reduce guesswork in these important decisions.

💡 Pro tip: use Contentsquare Funnels to make sense of drop-offs on your landing pages.

Drop-offs are the bane of every landing page’s existence. Traditional web page analytics, with its big-picture traffic data, will only get you so far. What you need is to understand why users are dropping off, so you can do something about it.

Contentsquare Journeys helps you visualize your landing page conversion flows, and shows you the relevant session replays at each step, making it easier than ever to connect your numbers to real user behavior.

This full overview of your funnel lets you quickly spot where most users drop off of your landing page—and the real reason behind it, so you can identify issues and pain points that make people leave, and confidently optimize for impact.

Visualize your conversion flows—and the real user behavior behind it—at every step 

3. How Unbounce solved UI/UX issues to improve user sign-ups 

Landing page builder Unbounce’s experience with landing page optimization shows that sometimes, it takes a bird’s eye view to realize that the user’s experience doesn’t meet expectations.

The idea of improving UX on their landing page’s sign-up form seemed pretty straightforward at first: integrate with an auto-completion API to save time and simplify the whole process for the user and increase conversions. They even ran usability tests to ensure everyone loved, and was on board with, the new feature. 

But they were in for a surprise. Once the team actually rolled out the changes—and enabled session replays to monitor their performance—they realized that auto-complete was the number one spot people got stuck:

Watching real people fail to use our brand-new ‘improved’ UX was cringe-inducing and painful to see when all we wanted to do was help them. I can't think of any other tool that would give such valuable insights.

Brian Holt
UI Developer, Unbounce
Why this LPO strategy works

Implementing your assumptions without seeking the truth in your user’s experience is one of the challenges of designing seamless user interfaces (UIs).

In this landing page optimization case study, Unbounce used replays to debunk assumptions in the design of their processes and interface:

Watching recordings was both a humbling and exciting experience because we knew exactly what we needed to change and identified some serious bugs which would have cost us a lot in losses of sign-ups.

By analyzing real visitor actions, the UI team was able to make informed decisions in rolling out fixes, which significantly improved their sign-up process and even prevented them from losing a customer who was signing up for an annual plan of $2,000+.

💡 Pro tip: supplement recordings data with insights from Voice of Customer (VOC) tools, like surveys, to determine what users expect from specific pages.

Asking questions with Surveys helps you dive deeper into user actions on your landing page. Replays show you which landing page elements they use first and how they use them, and surveys help you understand why.

Some of the responses may validate work you’ve already done, while others may be surprising. Either way, with the context for these actions in hand, optimizing your landing page becomes an easier task.

Use Contentsquare Surveys to collect feedback from people who are visiting your landing pages

Use Contentsquare to improve your landing pages

Use Contentsquare’s experience intelligence tools to understand why users behave the way they do on your landing pages—and find solutions that increase conversions.

Sign up
Sign up
4. How Creatopy engaged in continuous discovery to improve conversions by 25%

Ad generator platform Creatopy initially relied on traditional web analytic tools to track and measure traffic on their landing pages. However, they were in the dark when it came to understanding what people were actually doing there, and why. 

So, they turned to experience intelligence tools, like heatmaps, to help fill in the gaps.

In a cycle of continuous discovery, Creatopy used heatmaps on landing pages they needed to optimize, regularly gathering evidence of how people interacted with them, and then leveraged these insights to produce an alternative design and A/B test the old and new versions against one another.

Why this LPO strategy works

A structured and sustainable approach to continuous discovery helps you infuse your landing page optimization decisions with customer insights. Continuously gathering information on user needs helps you refine your ideas, which leads to happier customers, better prioritization, and improved targeting for your pay-per-click (PPC) campaigns. 

For example, consistently analyzing heatmaps of your landing pages gives you quick visual cues about their current results, performance, and scope for improvements—like areas of intensity that reflect where most customers hover their mouse, or cold spots that need a boost. 

You can integrate heatmaps into your business’s workflow and make them part of ongoing analytics, updating them on a regular basis to reflect your growth and efforts.

With the right mindset and tools, continuous discovery helps you deeply empathize with your visitors and feel confident your landing pages meet their evolving needs.

💡 Pro tip: unlock the secrets to high-converting pages with Contentsquare Experience Analytics.

As you optimize your landing pages for conversions, use Contentsquare Experience Analytics to see if sign-ups increase over time, and then view the corresponding heatmaps and recordings to understand why. 

Traditional analytics only show you the numbers, but Experience Analytics lets you see the full picture by visualizing your metrics, so you can spot user behavior patterns and uncover the ‘why’ behind the data. 

This lets you connect the dots between user behavior and numbers in a single tool, by linking product metrics to qualitative user insights.

5. How TomTom leveraged user feedback to create copy that converted 49% higher 

The team behind independent navigation software TomTom doesn't have to wonder whether their website and landing page optimizations actually improve the user experience. Using experience intelligence insights alongside other analytic tools, they get all the quantitative and qualitative data they need to make meaningful improvements to the customer journey.

For example, one of their favorite tools is surveys, which allows them to ask satisfied customers why they signed up or made a purchase—information they can then turn into compelling copy for landing pages and email campaigns. The results speak for themselves:

Using the information gathered from surveys helped us make substantial changes that resulted in a +491% increase in email CTR and a +49% conversion rate increase for our landing pages.

Dave Powell
Ecommerce Conversion Manager, TomTom
Why this LPO strategy works

Improving the user experience means answering questions about why users behave the way they do. To leverage LPO and increase conversions, marketing and UX teams need to go beyond the raw numbers they get from traditional tools like Google Analytics to really understand user behavior.

Tools like surveys or feedback widgets bring VOC insights to your decision-making, allowing you to prioritize what to optimize with real user feedback and validate every idea with reliable user insights.

6. How re:member revived affiliate traffic and increased conversions by 43%

When the digital marketing team at Scandinavian credit card company re:member noticed affiliate users—a significant traffic source—were bouncing from their landing page form more than usual, they knew traditional analytics wouldn’t be enough to tell why. 

Sure, the team could try to dissect these numbers in search of a motive, but they wanted to visually see what went wrong.

If a user decided to leave the website, we’re able to see if maybe the location of important information was out of the screen using heatmaps. With click maps, we can see if users click on objects that aren’t meant to be clicked. But most importantly, recordings allow us to see specific users anonymously, what went wrong, and when they had a hiccup.

Steffen Quistgaard
Senior Marketing Specialist, re:member

Pairing replays with heatmaps, re:member noticed that these affiliate users were experiencing technical difficulties—like attempting to click on unclickable elements—and were also looking for more information that wasn’t available on the landing page—by searching for and analyzing benefits before making a decision.

Seeing the credit card application form experience through their users’ eyes helped re:member understand why their affiliate visitors were leaving, so they could build a solution that increased conversions by 43%.

Why this LPO strategy works

Without experience intelligence tools, the re:member team may have never discovered what caused affiliate traffic to leave. But because they used the right tools, they had no problem spotting the issue and crafting a simple solution to reduce their bounce rate. 

By studying users engaging with your page, you develop a deeper understanding of their needs with qualitative and quantitative data—less guesswork and more features guaranteed to help your visitors convert or complete a desired action. This helps you avoid costly mistakes and fix issues that can have a long-term impact on your bottom line. 

💡 Pro tip: use Contentsquare Session Replay to see what stops visitors from converting 

Quantitative data tells you what happens on your landing page, but without speaking to users or seeing how they interact with your page, you won’t know why people behave the way they do.

Reviewing heatmap data with a tool like Session Replay lets you experience landing pages from your users’ perspectives so you can see what roadblocks they face.

Plus, you can build a strong case for the changes you want to make, get buy-in, and optimize landing pages faster.

Watch real-time replays of users on your landing pages with Contentsquare Session Replay

Next steps to landing page optimization

Even with the best of intentions, a poorly optimized landing page leaves potential customers confused and hesitant, ultimately leading to a user experience that just doesn’t do it for them. 

These landing page examples show the impact that LPO has on a variety of different businesses, but they all revolve around one common principle: improving performance starts and ends with users.

Keep your landing pages user centric with actionable insights that uncover exactly why your visitors convert, and why not, to build exceptional digital experiences and confidently optimize your UX and revenue stream.

Use Contentsquare to improve your landing pages

Use Contentsquare’s experience intelligence tools to understand why users behave the way they do on your landing pages—and find solutions that increase conversions.

Request a demo
Request a demo
FAQs about landing page optimization examples
Why is it important to optimize landing pages?

A well-optimized landing page helps your business increase the effectiveness of your marketing campaign by improving the user experience, increasing traffic, and converting more visitors into leads or customers. 

By testing and improving the key aspects of a landing page, you’re also ensuring that your work continues to resonate with your target audience as your business grows and evolves over time.

What’s the difference between conversion rate optimization and landing page optimization?

Landing page optimization (LPO) is a subset of conversion rate optimization (CRO) that only deals with improving the performance of landing pages, instead of the entire conversion process on a website. 

LPO is also mostly aligned with a one-touch customer point and usually offers value in the landing page itself—like downloading a lead magnet, making a payment, or subscribing to a newsletter. 

CRO, on the other hand, involves an investment from customers in terms of time and process funnels that extend beyond landing pages to increase the chance of better targeting and conversion.

What is the best way to optimize a landing page?

Use Contentsquare’s suite of experience intelligence insight tools to spot simple ways to improve your users’ experience and deliver small incremental changes that have a big impact. This helps you:

Discover issues and pain points that make visitors drop off your site

Get a front-row seat to how your audience interacts with your top-performing campaigns

Get inspired with new ideas to improve your landing pages and grow your revenue

Contentsquare's Content Team
Contentsquare's Content Team

We’re an international team of content experts and writers with a passion for all things customer experience (CX). From best practices to the hottest trends in digital, we’ve got it covered. Explore our guides to learn everything you need to know to create experiences that your customers will love. Happy reading!