Butcher - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main page
Contents
Current events
Random article
About Wikipedia
Contact us
Contribute
Help
Learn to edit
Community portal
Recent changes
Upload file
Special pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate
Create account
Log in
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
2
Duties
3
Butcher shop
4
Hot boning
5
Relevance
6
Meat departments
7
Primal cut
8
Metaphorical use
9
Gallery
10
Notable butchers and butcher shops
11
See also
12
References
13
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Butcher
61 languages
Aragonés
العربية
བོད་ཡིག
Català
Čeština
Dansk
Dagbanli
Deutsch
Zazaki
Esperanto
Español
Eesti
فارسی
Français
Frysk
Gaeilge
Gàidhlig
Hausa
עברית
Hrvatski
Kreyòl ayisyen
Հայերեն
Bahasa Indonesia
Italiano
日本語
Jawa
Қазақша
ಕನ್ನಡ
한국어
Latina
Lëtzebuergesch
Lombard
Latviešu
Minangkabau
Македонски
Napulitano
Plattdüütsch
Nederlands
Norsk bokmål
Polski
Piemontèis
پنجابی
Português
Română
Русский
Sicilianu
Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Simple English
Shqip
Српски / srpski
Тоҷикӣ
ไทย
Türkçe
Twi
Українська
اردو
Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча
Tiếng Việt
Walon
粵語
中文
Edit links
Article
Talk
English
Read
Edit
View history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
Read
Edit
View history
General
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
Get shortened URL
Switch to legacy parser
Print/export
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikiquote
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Craftsperson responsible for the preparation and sale of meat
For other uses, see Butcher (disambiguation) .
"},"type":{"wt":"[[Vocation]]"},"activity_sector":{"wt":"Manufacturing"},"competencies":{"wt":""},"formation":{"wt":""},"employment_field":{"wt":"Retail"},"related_occupation":{"wt":"[[Animal husbandry]]"}},"i":0}}]}'> Butcher
Butcher breaking down pork forequarter into pork shoulder and hand of pork using bone saw
Butcher in Meizhou , China
Butcher in Blois , France
An Amazigh Algerian butcher
Butcher at Ikot Nakanda Market, Akpabuyo , Nigeria
Occupation
Occupation type
Vocation
Activity sectors
Manufacturing
Description
Fields of employment
Retail
Related jobs
Animal husbandry
A butcher is a tradesperson who specializes in meatcutting , breaking down animal carcasses into primal cuts , preparation and retailing of meat, and sometimes slaughtering animals , or participates within any combination of these tasks. [ 1 ] They may prepare standard cuts of meat and poultry for sale in retail or wholesale food establishments. A butcher may be employed by supermarkets, grocery stores , butcher shops and fish markets , slaughterhouses , or may be self-employed . [ 2 ]
History
[ edit ]
Butchery is an ancient trade, whose duties may date back to the domestication of livestock; butchering guilds were first formed in England as far back as 1272. [ 3 ] In England during the Middle Ages , butchering was heavily regulated and structured. Butchers operated in a broad network of urban trade systems, some of these were food provision, textiles, clothing, etc. These trades overlapped and allowed for interconnected systems to form in medieval towns. [ 4 ] The different trade regulations maintained the quality of meat and protect the public. The butchering was regulated by appointed officials, specifically when it came to the sale and preparation of the meat. [ 5 ] These regulations were used to make sure they met the standards to be sold to the public. [ 5 ] These regulations represent earlier efforts to maintain quality standards in public spaces and markets.
Despite earlier attempts and regulations, butchers were still associated with air contamination and ‘putrid’ meat. [ 6 ] Historical accounts commonly show a similar complaint of butchers disposing of the waste of their butchering into public spaces. These complaints linked the disposal of the waste to diseases and bad smells. Authorities took these disposals as serious offences and were punished accordingly. These punishments were to deter such practices, [ 6 ] and contributed to restricting instances of improper disposal. When they would occur, they were sometimes associated to widespread animal diseases when it became difficult to ensure the quality of meat. [ 6 ]
Through medieval England to the Renaissance , the butchering trade became closely tied to guilds systems in urban communities. Guilds played a big role in regulations and market organization and economic activity. They often played bigger roles in bigger urban settings such as cities or large towns. [ 7 ] During this period, efforts were made to regulate and standardize the butchering trade. [ 7 ] Authorities also became more involved in the regulation of guilds and butchering to ensure they continued to perform with quality in mind. The authorities would be very involved in making sure that underweighting of the meat would not occur, so the price of the meat would be fair to the public. [ 7 ] This caused tension between the butchers and regulators, especially in times of changing market conditions. [ 7 ]
By the nineteenth century, industrialisation brought major changes to the meat industry and the butchering profession. Slaughterhouses increasingly located to designated industrial facilities away from public spaces. Prior to this shift butchering was typical to see in public. [ 8 ] This caused a bigger rift between butchering and the public, as it was starting to no longer be popular to go to butcher shops nor see the process of the butchering. [ 8 ] Industrial facilities were often seen as more sanitary , [ 8 ] as they were seen to have more regulations. This led to the foundation of what we now know today of the relationships between the meat industry, butchers, and the public.
Since the 20th century, many countries and local jurisdictions offer trade certifications for butchers to ensure quality, safety, and health standards but not all butchers have formal certification or training. Trade qualification in English-speaking countries is often earned through an apprenticeship although some training organisations also certify their students. In Canada, once a butcher is trade qualified, they can learn to become a master butcher (Fleishmaster). [ 9 ] [ 10 ]
Standards and practices of butchery differ between countries, regions and ethnic groups. Variation with respect to the types of animals that are butchered as well as the cuts and parts of the animal that are sold depends on the types of foods that are prepared by the butcher's customers.
Duties
[ edit ]
Left: Relief of cutting up cattle, Saqqara , Egypt, 24th century BC; Right: A butcher (14th century)
\n</span> "}]]}'/>
Butchery is a traditional line of work. In the industrialized world, slaughterhouses use butchers to slaughter the animals, performing one or a few of the steps repeatedly as specialists on a semi-automated disassembly line. The steps include stunning (rendering the animal incapacitated), exsanguination (severing the carotid or brachial arteries to facilitate blood removal), skinning (removing the hide or pelt) or scalding and dehairing (pork), evisceration (removing the viscera ) and splitting (dividing the carcass in half longitudinally ).
After the carcasses are chilled (unless "hot-boned"), primary butchery consists of selecting carcasses, sides, or quarters from which primal cuts can be produced with the minimum of wastage; separating the primal cuts from the carcass; trimming primal cuts and preparing them for secondary butchery or sale; and storing cut meats. Secondary butchery involves boning, trimming and value-adding of primal cuts in preparation for sale. Historically, primary and secondary butchery were performed in the same establishment, but the advent of methods of preservation ( vacuum packing ) and low cost transportation has largely separated them.
In parts of the world, it is common for butchers to perform many or all of the butcher's duties. Where refrigeration is less common, these skills are required to sell the meat of slaughtered animals.
Butcher shop
[ edit ]
"Butcher's shop", "Butchery", and "boucherie" redirect here. For the 1583 painting, see Butcher's Shop . For the landform, see Mount Boucherie .
Interior of a butcher shop in Florence , 1983. Florence in ancient times was famous for these shops.
Dried meat being weighed and prepared for sale in a butcher shop
Butchers sell their goods in specialized stores, commonly termed a butcher shop ( American English ), butchery ( South African English ) or butchers ( British English ). Butchers at a butcher shop may perform primary butchery, but will typically perform secondary butchery to prepare fresh cuts of meat for sale. These shops may also sell related products, such as Charcuterie , hot food (using their own meat products), food preparation supplies, baked goods and grocery items. Butcher shops can have a wider variety of animal types, meat cuts and quality of cuts. Additionally, butcher shops may focus on a particular culture, or nationality, of meat production. Some butcher shops, termed "meat delis", may also include a delicatessen .
Boucherie du Bac, 82 Rue du Bac , Paris
Left: Shoppers at the meat poultry department of a grocery store; Right: Fish Meat Sushi store in New York City, New York
\n</span> "}]]}'/>
In the United States and Canada, butcher shops have become less common because of the increasing popularity of supermarkets and warehouse clubs. Many remaining ones are aimed at Hispanic and other immigrants or, more recently, those looking for organic offerings. [ 11 ] Supermarkets employ butchers for secondary butchery, but in the United States even that role is diminished with the advent of "case-ready" meat, where the product is packaged for retail sale at the packinghouse or specialized central processing plants. [ citation needed ]
Hot boning
[ edit ]
Hot boning is a process used by butchers to remove the meat from the carcass almost instantly after the animal is slaughtered. This is done to prevent rigor mortis (Chemical changes causing stiffening of the limbs and corpse). Warm meat is often softer and easier to remove from the bone, and hot boning can save refrigeration costs. Cattle, Lamb, and Pigs are the animals most frequently hot boned. [ 12 ]
Relevance
[ edit ]
Popularity and relevance of the art of butchering have shifted over the years both geographically and historically. Meat demand has risen dramatically over the centuries, but in many Western countries, like the United States, Butcher shops are less prevalent. Meat markets have grown by an average 5.1% per year since 1970, and this is largely due to urbanization and demand. In the United States, meat is mass-produced and then shipped to stores that can sell large amounts quickly and keep the meat frozen. Individual butcher shops with contracts to small farms struggle to keep their prices low enough to match large industries. [ 13 ]
Butcher shops are still common in many European and South American countries. In countries like Argentina meat consumption was as high as 97 kilograms per person in 2002, with the vast majority of it being beef. [ 14 ]
In asian countries, butchering consists of more "nose to tail" butchering practices, which involves using every part of the animal, including common parts that are typically thrown away in the West, like pig blood, chicken feet, rabbit head, tripe, and tendon. Often these meats are harvested with specialty knives like the Caidao , hankatsu, and honesuki.
Meat departments
[ edit ]
In the United States and in other western countries, many customers have become familiar with meat departments in grocery stores and supermarkets rather than butcher shops. Meat departments are used to sell and take in more product faster and more efficiently. Butchers who work in meat departments have tasks like small scale cutting and cleaning, as well as marinating, packaging and ordering shipments of meat. Butchers in meat departments almost never assist in the slaughtering process. [ 15 ]
Most meat departments sell fresh (never frozen) cuts of meat. Many butchers are able to manipulate the "bloom" aspect of meat (the bright red color of steaks that looks fresh). When meat is first cut, it will appear purple. This is due to a surplus of myoglobin on the surface; once the meat has first warmed up to room temperature, oxygen is added to the meat to oxidize myoglobin, which produces oxymyoglobin, giving the meat the scarlet red color that consumers indicate as fresh. Through this process, supermarkets and meat departments are able to make meat appear fresh for longer periods of time. This process is referred to as "blooming". [ 16 ]
Primal cut
[ edit ]
Main article: Primal cut
See also: Cut of beef and Cut of pork
Cuts of beef in Italy
A primal cut is a piece of meat initially separated from the carcass during butchering. Different countries and cultures make these cuts in different ways, and primal cuts also differ between type of carcass. The British, American and French primal cuts all differ in some respects. One notable example with pork is fatback , which in Europe is an important primal cut of pork , but in North America is regarded as trimmings to be used in sausage or rendered into lard . The primal cuts may be sold complete or cut further.
Metaphorical use
[ edit ]
See also Butcher (disambiguation)
"... revenge the blood of a Monarch most I undeservedly butchered , ..."
In various periods and cultures, the term "butcher" has been applied to people who act cruelly to other human beings or slaughter them. For example, Pompey , a prominent Roman general and politician of the first century BC, got the Latin nickname adulescentulus carnifex , translated as "The Teenage Butcher" or "The Butcher Boy", due to brutal treatment of political opponents in the early part of his career. More recently, the Bosslot Serb war criminal Ratko Mladić was nicknamed "the Butcher of the Balkans".
The term can also be used in a semi-humorous or metaphorical way to describe someone whose actions resemble the various skills and methods of a butcher (chopping, cutting, slicing, stabbing etc.) Spanish footballer Andoni Goikoetxea was popularly ascribed the epithet "The Butcher of Bilbao" in recognition of his perceived aggressive style of play and frequent, sometimes injurious, challenges on opposing players.
Gallery
[ edit ]
A butcher's display in Morocco
Meat sellers at market, Andahuaylas , Peru
A butcher at work in Aleppo , Syria
Leg changing system in a slaughterhouse
A Butcher's Stall, Turkestan , between 1865 and 1872
Primary butchery in a meat packing plant, 1873
Butcher in Minneapolis , Minnesota, 1955
Butcher at Tekka Centre wet market , Singapore
Butchers cutting chicken in Kenya
Butcher stall in Nigeria
Butcher in Mali
Butcher stall in Shueisian Temple Market, Taiwan
Butcher in Tunisia
A young butcher in Gombe, Nigeria
Notable butchers and butcher shops
[ edit ]
Dario Cecchini
Lobel's of New York
Tom Mylan
Omaha Steaks
Arthur Orton
Pat LaFrieda Meat Purveyors
See also
[ edit ]
Charcuterie
Meat cutter
Meat price
Qassab
Qureshi
Sausage making
Victualler
Butcher block
Butcher knife
Butcher soup
Boeuf gras
World Butchers Challenge
Chopzone
References
[ edit ]
↑ "Merriam-Webster's Dictionary's definition of "butcher" " . Archived from the original on 2013-05-12 . Retrieved 2010-04-25 .
↑ "Employment information for butchers" . Archived from the original on 2010-04-05 . Retrieved 2010-04-25 .
↑ "York Butchers Gild – History of the Butchers' Gild" . www.yorkbutchersgild.com . Archived from the original on 2012-03-08 . Retrieved 2026-05-04 .
↑ Whitney, Elspeth; Swanson, Heather (1992). "Medieval Artisans: An Urban Class in Late Medieval England" . Technology and Culture . 33 (2): 351. doi : 10.2307/3105867 .
1 2 Sabine, Ernest L. (1933). "Butchering in Mediaeval London" . Speculum . 8 (3): 335– 339. doi : 10.2307/2848862 . ISSN   0038-7134 .
1 2 3 Sabine, Ernest L. (1933). "Butchering in Mediaeval London" . Speculum . 8 (3): 335– 339. doi : 10.2307/2848862 . ISSN   0038-7134 .
1 2 3 4 Freathy, Paul; Thomas, Iris (2021). "Hegemony and Protectionism in Bologna's Meat Trade:The Role of Visual Imagery in Reputation Management" . Enterprise & Society . 22 (2): 567– 573. doi : 10.1017/eso.2020.3 . hdl : 1893/30979 . ISSN   1467-2227 .
1 2 3 Thelle, Mikkel (2018). "The Meat City: urban space and provision in industrial Copenhagen, 1880–1914" . Urban History . 45 (2): 234– 253. doi : 10.1017/S096392681700044X . ISSN   0963-9268 .
↑ "Job futures statistics" . Servicecanada.gc.ca. Archived from the original on 2009-08-07.
↑ "Master Butcher's Guide" . Members.shaw.ca. [ dead link ]
↑ "Small butcher shops are in 'a renaissance.' How did they survive the supermarket offensive?" . Star Tribune . Archived from the original on 2019-06-03 . Retrieved 2019-06-03 .
↑ Carrick, Devine (2014). Encyclopedia of Meat Sciences (2nd   ed.). Elsevier. pp.   453– 457.
↑ Robinson, Timothy P.; Wint, G. R. William; Conchedda, Giulia; Boeckel, Thomas P. Van; Ercoli, Valentina; Palamara, Elisa; Cinardi, Giuseppina; D'Aietti, Laura; Hay, Simon I.; Gilbert, Marius (2014-05-29). "Mapping the Global Distribution of Livestock" . PLOS ONE . 9 (5) e96084. Bibcode : 2014PLoSO...996084R . doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0096084 . ISSN   1932-6203 . PMC   4038494 . PMID   24875496 .
↑ "Meat consumption per capita" . The Guardian . 2009-09-02. p.   1 . Retrieved 2026-05-03 .
↑ "Butchers" . Bureau of Labor Statistics . p.   2 . Retrieved 2026-05-03 .
↑ Hisano, Ai (2017). "Cellophane, the New Visuality, and the Creation of Self-Service Food Retailing" . SSRN Electronic Journal : pg: 9. doi : 10.2139/ssrn.2973544 . ISSN   1556-5068 . SSRN   2973544 .
External links
[ edit ]
Butcher at Wikipedia's sister projects
Definitions from Wiktionary
Media from Commons
Quotations from Wikiquote
Data from Wikidata
v
t
e
Retail
Key concepts
Counter display unit
Display stand
Endcap
Facing
Free standing display unit
Gondola
History of retail
Merchandising
Visual merchandising
Point of sale display
Retail design
Retail merchandising unit
Right to sit ( United States )
Self-service
Shelf-ready packaging
By product
Agricultural supplies
Alcohol
Antiques
Automotive fuel
Automotive parts
Beauty products
Books
Cannabis
Catering
Mobile
Chocolate
Clothes
Comics
Confectionery
Consumer electronics
Cycles
Doujin shop
Dry goods
Equestrian supplies
Eyewear
Fish
Flowers
Food
Food service
Fruit stand
Furniture
Garden centre
Gardening supplies
General merchandise
Gold
Greengrocer
Grocery
Public grocery
Guns
Hardware
Health food
Herbal tea
Hobby supplies
Home decor
Home improvement products
Ironmongery
Jewellery
Lingerie
Lumber
Magic supplies
Meat
Medications
Medicinal plants
Music
Musical instruments
News
Office supplies
Outdoor equipment
Party supplies
Personal accessories
Pets and pet supplies
Real estate
Religious goods
Sexual goods
Shoes
Skateboarding supplies
Sporting goods
Survival equipment
Tickets
Resale
Online
Tobacco
Toys
Vaping products
Vehicles
Video games
By format
Anchor tenant
Automat
Automated retail
Big-box store
Boot fair
Boutique
Brick and mortar
Bring and buy sale
Butcher shop
Car boot sale
Cash and carry
Cashierless store
Category killer
Chain store
Charity shop
Closeout store
Company store
Consignment shop
Consignment store (East Asia)
Convenience store
Automated convenience store
Dark store
Department store
Junior department store
Public department store
Discount store
E-commerce
Estate sale
Experiential commerce
Experiential retail
Factory outlet
Factory store
Flash retailing
Free box
Freeshop
Free store
Garage sale
General store
Give-away shop
Haberdasher
Head shop
High Street
Honesty box
Hospice shop
Hyperstore
Immersive commerce
Inspect and pay
Jumble sale
Junk shop
Lifestyle store
Main Street
Mall kiosk
Market
Bazaar
Christmas market
Dark market
Dry market
Grey market
Farmers' market
Fish market
Flea market
Floating market
Hypermarket
Marketplace
Online marketplace
Market booth
Market hall
Market stall
Market square
Mart
Meat market
Mercado
Morning market
Pasar pagi
Night market
Pasar malam
Open-air market
Palengke
Pannier market
Public market
Souk
Street market
Supermarket
warehouse supermarket
Tianguis
Traditional market
Wet market
Megastore
Micro-retailing
Military cooperative
Moving sale
Non-store retailing
Off-price
Omnichannel retail strategy
Online grocer
Online retailing
Opportunity shop
Outlet store
Pop-up retail
Pop-up shop
Pop-up store
Pretail
Resale shop
Retail kiosk
Retail vehicle
Rummage sale
Second-hand shop
Shop-in-shop
Shopping center
Big-box center
Community center
Festival center
Festival marketplace
Galleria
Lifestyle center
Neighborhood shopping center
Outlet center
Outlet mall
Pedestrian mall
Plaza
Power center
Retail park
Shopping arcade
Shopping complex
Shopping mall
Shopping plaza
Shopping precinct
Strip center
Strip mall
Strip plaza
Theme center
Showroom
Smartstore
Smart shop
Specialty store
Store-within-a-store
Supercenter
Superstore
Swap meet
Indoor swap meet
Swap shop
Tag sale
Thrift store
Unmanned store
Variety store
Dollar store
Five and dime store
Vending machine
Warehouse club
Warehouse store
Web store
White elephant sale
Wholesale club
Yard sale
By type
Arabber
Boutique
Braderie
Butcher shop
Concession stand
Cooked food centre
Costermonger
Direct sellers
Duty-free shop
Etsy witches
Food booth
Food cart
Food court
Food hall
Food kiosk
Food stall
Food stand
Food truck
Gift shop
Hawker
Hawker centre
Ice cream truck
Ice cream van
Museum shop
Pawn shop
Peddler
Pharmacies
Refreshment stand
Snack bar
Snack kiosk
Souvenir shop
Surplus store
Tack shop
Tax-free shopping
Tuck shop
v
t
e
Restaurant staff
Dining area staff
Bartender
Busser
Maître d'hôtel
Sommelier
Waiting staff
Carhop
Kitchen staff
Baker
Butcher
Chef
Chef de cuisine
Chef de partie
Cook
Dishwasher
Pastry chef
Chocolatier
Saucier
Sous-chef
Related
Gratuity
Kitchen brigade
Restaurant management
Restaurateur
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Butcher&oldid=1362480934 "
Categories : Meat industry
Food service occupations
Culinary terminology
Retailers by type of merchandise sold
Hidden categories: Articles with short description
Short description is different from Wikidata
Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images
All articles with dead external links
Articles with dead external links from May 2026
Pages using multiple image with unknown parameters
All articles with unsourced statements
Articles with unsourced statements from March 2020
Pages using Sister project links with hidden wikidata
This page was last edited on 4 July 2026, at 06:10  (UTC) .
Page was rendered with Parsoid .
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Legal & safety contacts
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Butcher
61 languages
Add topic
