Home | Ehrenberg-Bass Institute for Marketing Science
Search
Close
Search
Contact Us
Donate
Sponsor Login
Enrol in Training
Commission Research
Become a Sponsor
Login
In
Searching...
No results found for "
"
Back to Main Menu
Learn with us
Back to Learn with us
Sponsorship
Back to Learn with us
Research Services
Back to Learn with us
Learning Opportunities
Back to Main Menu
Who We Are
Back to Who We Are
What we've done
Back to Who We Are
Governance
Contact us
Donate
Enrol in Training
Commission Research
Become a Sponsor
Loading…
The home of evidence-based marketing
Join PepsiCo, Mondelēz International, Lipton Teas & Infusions and many other leading international brands who are experiencing the competitive advantage of evidence-based marketing.
Start your journey
Ehrenberg-Bass Institute is proudly part of Adelaide University
Insights that are proven, not presumed.
Our research has transformed how the world’s biggest brands think about marketing — from brand building to buyer behaviour. With decades of data across categories and countries, we deliver insights that are proven, not presumed.
The Ehrenberg-Bass Institute is famous as the home of evidence-based marketing. Our sponsors support academic research into what works.  They use the discoveries to drive growth, and improve their marketing.
0
research studies delivered
0
researchers dedicated to evidence-based marketing
0
books sold
0
How Brands Grow Live graduates
Start your evidence-based marketing journey
Previous tab
Sponsorship
Research Services
Learning Opportunities
Speaker Requests
Books
Free Resources
Next tab
Access the multi-million dollar research budget of your dreams.
Gain exclusive access to the Institute’s groundbreaking research and transform your marketing practice. We pool the contributions of Ehrenberg-Bass Sponsors from all over the world into a multi-million dollar research budget that opens up possibilities companies could never imagine.
Sponsor benefits include:
Exclusive access to decades of research
In-house seminars to bring the knowledge to life and up-skill staff
Direct access to advice from 60+ marketing scientists
Sponsorship
Unlock profitable brand growth with proven research tools.
At the heart of the Institute services are powerful research tools underpinned by robust evidence designed to uncover exactly what drives profitable brand growth. The insights, recommendations, and outcomes aren’t just informative, they’re immediately actionable, providing clarity and confidence to shape smarter business and marketing strategies.
Gain the competitive advantage
Empirically validated research tools
Fosters an evidence-based culture within your organisation
Empowers teams to make smarter, more effective marketing decisions
Research Services
Discover the power of evidence-based marketing with How Brands Grow Live!
Step beyond the pages of
How Brands Grow
and become immersed in a world of strategy-changing marketing insights.
How Brands Grow
Live!
is offered in two formats:
In-house, for Ehrenberg-Bass Sponsor teams, customised with own data
Off-site in 3 global locations, tailored for marketing and business executives
Gain the evidence and tools to make smarter decisions
Learn strategies that will (and won't) lead to sustainable growth
Discover the real-world value of different marketing tactics
Understand how to incorporate evidence-based knowledge into your strategic decision-making and planning processes
Learn more about How Brands Grow Live!
Be inspired by evidence-based insights.
Researchers from the Ehrenberg-Bass Institute are regularly invited to speak at major industry conferences and events around the world, and participate in marketing podcasts.
As our team is busy making important research discoveries and supporting Ehrenberg-Bass Sponsors, we can only accept a small number of opportunities each year. If you wish to extend an invitation to an Ehrenberg-Bass marketing expert, please complete this form (providing as many details as possible) and our team will be in touch as soon as possible.
Speaker / Podcast Requests
Evidence-based knowledge at your fingertips
The Institute is globally recognised for transforming the way the world understands marketing. You can access our insights through a curated selection of books available for purchase.
Whether you're a marketing professional, academic, or business leader, these publications offer practical, research-backed guidance on building strong brands, driving growth, and making better marketing decisions. Each book is grounded in decades of empirical research conducted by the Institute and is designed to challenge conventional wisdom with facts, not opinion.
How Brands Grow
Building Distinctive Brand Assets
Better Brand Health
and more...
Books
Discover a library of open-access knowledge
Most of the research undertaken by the Ehrenberg-Bass Institute is shared exclusively with our valuable Ehrenberg-Bass Sponsors. However occasionally we will provide public access to a research report, academic paper, white paper, video and more.
Podcasts
B2B Reports
Open-access Reports and Publications
Wine Marketing Knowledge
Free Resources
Previous tab
Next tab
How Brands Grow Live!
Intensive workshop uncovers the Institute’s core knowledge.
How Brands Grow
Live!
has two divisions. Our Sponsor division, and one for marketing and business executives. The latter is hosted in three different regions throughout the year – Asia, Europe and North America.
Tell me more
INDUSTRY INSIGHTS AND NEWS
News, updates and insights shaping the marketing industry
Is the World Cup’s ever-changing logo an own-goal?
Jake Borlace
From mental availability to mass marketing, purpose nonsense and consistency: What Ritson and Sharp did and didn’t agree on at this year’s Cannes
News
News
Global Reach
Marketing Science without borders
Our impact is global. From New York to Nairobi, we work with leading brands, deliver seminars, and share research insights in over 25 countries. We connect marketers and researchers worldwide to turn science into strategy, wherever growth is the goal.
25+ countries
where we’ve delivered seminars and worked with sponsors
100+ global sponsors
representing the world’s biggest brands
12+ languages
our research has been translated into
1400+ industry presentations
delivered globally in the past 10 years