CINEMATOGRAPHY: Curriculum | AFI CONSERVATORY
AFI
About AFI
AFI Home
MISSION AND VISION
EQUITY AND INCLUSION
History
Board of Trustees
Senior Staff
Impact Report
Directions
Contact
Log In
SHOP
Support
CONSERVATORY
Masters Degree Program
Alumni
Innovative Programs
Library
FESTIVALS
AFI FEST
AFI DOCS
AWARDS
AFI Life Achievement Award
AFI Awards
PRESERVATION
AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Archive
Collection at the Library of Congress
The Robert Osborne Collection
LISTS
AFI 100 Years…100 Movies
AFI 100 Years…100 Quotes
TEN TOP TEN
See all lists
AFI SILVER THEATRE
AFI Silver Theatre and Cultural Center
SUPPORT
Donate
Become a member
AFI
AFI Movie Club
News
Press
Newsletter Sign-up
AFI Member All-Access
Log In
MFA Program
Cinematography
Directing
Editing
Producing
Production Design
Screenwriting
Seminar Guests
Production
Learning Outcomes
Office of the Registrar
Overview
Academic Calendars
Transcripts and Verification Requests
Services and Forms
Policies and Procedures
Commencement
Admissions
Prospective Students
Admissions Requirements
Admissions Deadlines
Tuition and Fees
Housing Around AFI
Frequently Asked Questions
International Applicants
Apply Now
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Applying for Aid
Types of Financial Aid
Scholarships
Veterans Benefits
Visit
Campus Tour
Campus Map/Directions
Innovative Programs
Innovative Programs
AFI DWW+
About DWW+
How To Apply To DWW+
DWW+ ALUMS
Cinematography Intensive Workshop
Alumni
Alumni Campus Access
AFI Backlot
AFI Writer’s Room Ready
Alumni at the Oscars
Franklin J. Schaffner Award
Update Alumni Contact info
Alumni Code of Conduct
Campus
Campus Map/Directions
Campus Tour
Louis B. Mayer Library
Events
Campus Tour/Events
Admissions Events
WATCH
About
Overview
History
Leadership
Merchandise
Federal Disclosures
Honorary Degree Recipients
CINEMATOGRAPHY: First Year
CIN511: Cinematography Workshop: Dramatic Analysis
FALL TERM
.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
In this course, Cinematography Fellows’ Cycle projects are the subject of extensive analyses with an emphasis on the aesthetic choices made by the Cinematography Fellow. Each weekly session is devoted to two projects. Faculty and Cinematography Fellows provide the Cycle project Cinematographer with written summaries and insight into the storytelling achievement of the projects screened. Attendance is required.
CIN 521 and 522: The Art and Craft of Cinematography – Studio
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
4.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
The primary goal of this course is to emulate real-world production set experience, requiring Fellows to prepare for each in-class exercise as they would for an actual shoot. Fellows are expected to take initiative, demonstrate preparation, and practice the leadership integral to the role of the Cinematographer. The course develops each Fellow’s ability to delegate and coordinate the camera crew—Gaffer, Key Grip, Dolly Grip, and Camera Operator—with emphasis on understanding crew responsibilities, effective delegation, and fostering a collaborative, proactive set environment.
The course also explores how to shape motivated and emotionally driven lighting for both 35mm print dailies and digital scans. Each Fellow will Co-DP one in-class shoot and crew on 13 others, all under the direct supervision of the instructor.
CIN 521 and 522: The Art and Craft of Cinematography – Tech Lab
FALL AND SPRING TERMS 2 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
This course will explore and experiment with the physical nature of technology through lectures, hands-on workshops and screenings. Examples of covered topics include over/under exposure parameters of motion picture film and image sensors in various formats; comparative lighting exercises; accepted protocols for lens tests; photochemical and digital intermediate workflows from capture to deliverables; dailies’ screenings and analysis.
CIN 525 and 526: Fellow Research Project I & II
FIRST AND SECOND TERMS
.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
Fellows will create two master’s program level group Research Projects with corresponding class-instruction over the course of the first year. While guided by the instructor, it is the Fellows’ own interests, active research and revelations that will drive the course.
CIN 529 and 530: The Science Cinematography – Lecture
FALL AND SPRING TERMS 3 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
The Science of Cinematography (lecture) is an exploration of how we understand and use the technical tools in cinematography to create our artistic intent. It is concentrated on building foundational understanding of digital processes, celluloid, light and optics. In this course, Fellows will attain the necessary skills and vocabulary to discuss, investigate, plan and manipulate an image in prep, on set and in post, at any level of modern production and post-production environment.
CIN 531 and 532: The History of Cinematography
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
.5 CREDIT HOUR, REQUIRED FOR FALL TERM
.5 CREDIT HOUR, ELECTIVE FOR SPRING TERM
The history of cinematography is presented in this bi-monthly session, which rotates with the Language of Cinematography sessions. This class aims to provide a wide-ranging examination of the themes, trends, techniques, and technological developments that have informed the evolution of visual storytelling. Classes pair a screening with either a lecture or a dialogue with an invited guest. Films of cinematographic significance are presented to illustrate the journey of the cinematographer’s artistry from the early days to the digital age. Writing assignments and photographic assignments are used to underscore course insights.
CIN 561 and 562: The Language of Cinematography
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
1.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
In narrative cinema there are two sensory experiences: sound, primarily through dialogue; and image, through which that dialogue is put into context. Images can convey meaning in silence, or work with or against the dialogue. Cinematographers and their collaborators conjure the complex language of cinema using all the tools at their disposal. To be effective Cinematographers, they must master the skills and language of cinematography, so their images melt into the whole film.
This class will explore in depth the aesthetic, technical and logistical choices available to cinematographers to serve both the narrative and the director’s vision.
CIN 561/562 meets every other week, sharing the same meeting time as, and rotating with, History of Cinematography.
This class welcomes Fellows from other discipline as auditors; auditors may not elect this class for credit.
CIN 5711, 5722, 5723: Cycle Cinematography Preparation & Logistics I – III
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
1.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL REQUIRED
This course focuses on the practical choices and decisions– aesthetic, technical and logistical–made in the preparation and execution of the Cinematographer’s Cycle production. Fellows consult individually with the instructor. One week before each Cycle production, Cinematography Fellows present their visual plans to the class, including their understanding of the script and how their camera and lighting choices support the story. Discussion will cover production challenges, proposed solutions, problem solving, safety, leadership, and team collaboration. The instructor visits production sets to observe the production process and to assess the safe use of equipment. The instructor is also available to review the completed project.
Year One, End-of-Year Review
At the end of the first year, the Cinematography Discipline conducts an End of The Year Review, the Cinematography where Fellows present a scene (or scenes) from Cycle projects two or three, Cycle project workbooks and a self-analysis statement. The portfolio review is conducted by several Faculty through a private, formal interview with each Cinematography Fellow. The purpose of the review is to help Fellows identify areas of success and areas requiring improvement. The goal of the review is self-knowledge and personal growth for each Fellow.
CINEMATOGRAPHY: Second Year
CIN 627: Advanced Technology
FALL TERM
1 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL
REQUIRED
CIN 627 builds upon the tools and technology presented in CIN 530 and the larger first-year Cinematography curriculum. CIN 627 focuses on applications such as Effects, Advanced and nonstandard optics, as well as the cinematographer’s relationship to post, including advanced workflow design, emerging color spaces, and LUTs.
CIN 631 and 632: Advanced Production Techniques with Master Cinematographers
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
7 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL
REQUIRED
In this course, Guest master practitioners will guide Fellows through exercises of interior and exterior lighting, composition, lens selection, color theory, exposure practices, image control, blocking of action and post-production workflows, in the context of cinematography as an evolving craft. This is a unique opportunity to engage one-on-one with master cinematographers, craftsmen and technicians in a workshop environment. Discussion of their work will provide insight into how these artists think, the techniques and tools they use, and how they approach specific shooting situations in pursuit of telling a story.
The Career Development Master Seminars prepare 2nd Year Cinematography Fellows for life beyond AFI. The seminars will be exploring topics such as career strategy, agents, interviews, the union, and self-promotion.
Past guest lecturers include
Rachel Morrison ASC, Ed Lachman ASC, Ellen Kuras ASC, Erik
Messerschmidt ASC, Polly Morgan ASC BSC, Ari Wegner ACS ASC, Catherine Goldschmidt ASC
BSC, Steve Yedlin ASC, David Stump ASC, Natalie Kingston ASC, Shana Hagan ASC, Sandra
Valde-Hansen ASC, Dan Sasaki and Walter Volpatto.
CIN 635 and 636: Visual Essay Production Exercises
FALL AND SPRING TERMS
2.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL
REQUIRED
Each Cinematography Fellow produces a Visual Essay shot on 35mm that demonstrates their storytelling abilities, understanding of visual perspective, and competency in the medium of film.
The Visual Essay is guided throughout the entire process from pre-production to post-production by the Discipline Head of Cinematography and the Visual Essay Faculty. In a classroom setting, dailies and edits are reviewed by faculty and peers, culminating in a 3-minute film that will be shown in a showcase at the end of the year.
CIN 670: Internship Practicum
ANY TERM
1–3 CREDIT HOUR(S)
ELECTIVE
The objective of this course is to provide working experience in the film/TV industry as it pertains specifically to the Fellow’s degree/certificate requirements. Specific duties and requirements will be outlined and supervised by the faculty mentor. This internship qualifies an international Fellow for Curriculum Practical Training; approval must be obtained by the international advisor, as well as the faculty mentor prior to enrolling in the course.
CIN 690 & 691
1
: Thesis Portfolio — Meetings
FALL, SPRING and, if applicable, SUMMER TERM
.5 CREDIT HOURS TOTAL (Final credits earned may be in CIN 691 if Thesis has not been delivered)
REQUIRED
Cinematography Fellows will plan, produce and shoot their thesis project that will demonstrate creative and technical competencies. In this seminar, shared jointly with Production Design Fellows, each Fellow will formally present their thesis plans and will review their dailies and edits. At the presentation of dailies, each Fellow will review the production experience. In addition, completed portfolio reels will be evaluated by the Discipline Head during a final exit interview and review.
The Discipline Head approves the thesis work as appropriate for graduation.
1
Fellows will be enrolled into CIN 691 in summer term if thesis has not been delivered by end of second term.
Click Here to view the complete academic catalog for all disciplines.
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
This website uses cookies to provide you with the best browsing experience.
Accept
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Powered by
GDPR Cookie Compliance
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Settings