What is the APG?
top of page
For Planners & Strategists
What is The APG?
The APG is a not-for-profit organisation run for and by its members: primarily account planners in advertising agencies, but increasingly the wider community of communications strategists, including media planners, channel planners and digital planners.
Who is the on the APG Committee?
Who is the APG Team?
What does The APG believe?
We believe in the importance of excellent advertising and communications strategy.
We believe in the role of planning in delivering excellent strategy. Planners are at the heart of creative businesses, so they are more likely than anyone else to produce strategies that are creatively inspiring.
What does The APG do?
We encourage dialogue among our members and provide a ‘home’ for planners, representing the interests of the planning community.
We provide
world-class leading training
to foster excellent strategic thinking across our industry.
We have created the world’s most comprehensive collection of
ground breaking strategic case studies
through the biennial APG Creative Strategy Awards.
We represent the interests of our members by seeking to influence agency heads and clients, promoting the role of excellent strategic thinking and planning.
We aim to further improve the quality of talent attracted to the planning discipline.
What do APG members think?
"Excellent training and case studies"
"The training is exceptional, the recent
'
Holding Your Own with Senior Clients
'
was very useful. The APG has never been better"
"I enjoy the APG
Noisy Thinking
events and young planner events - they're a great way to meet other planners in the industry"
"Events are great for
young planners
. In what can be an intimidating industry the APG really helped me find my feet"
"Feels like a community of planners who share in a common purpose"
"Inspiring, challenging - keeping me fresh"
"I think the APG's
Noisy Thinking
events are really fantastic. I also think fostering a community of planners, especially young planners, is really beneficial"
"The regular events aimed at planners of all different levels. We all have to keep learning. Even those at the top!"
"Leading the thinking in the industry and accessing highly engaging speakers"
"Keeping you up-to-date on discussions on strategy"
"Focused on recognising and nurturing strategic talent"
Join the community and
become a member today
bottom of page