URL_FUENTE: https://www.retaildogma.com/retail-media/
Retail Media Networks
Skip to content
Retail Dogma
RETAILDOGMA
RETAIL EDUCATION & TRAINING SOLUTIONS
Menu
Academy
Retail Management Training
Learning Paths
Store Manager Training
Retail Math Course
Pricing
For Employers
Employee Training
Job Posting
For Universities
Enroll Your Students
For Faculty
Teaching Materials
For Students
Careers
Job Board
Career Resources
Free Resources
Articles
Videos
Data & Visuals
Downloads
Retail Calculators
Retail Statistics
Retail Benchmarks
Retail Math Test
Members Area
Team Leader Dashboard
Log In
0
Retail Media Networks
By
Rasha Mahmoud
What Are Retail Media Networks?
Retail Media Networks are advertising platforms set up by retail companies to provide advertising services to third-party suppliers and brands on the retailer’s digital channels.
Over the last few years, Retail Media Networks (RMNs) have been growing and gaining market share in the U.S. digital advertising world, and are forecasted to reach $61.15 billion in 2024 , contributing 19.1% to total digital ad spending.
Join Our Channel
How it Works
This artwork by  Retail Dogma, Inc.  is licensed under  CC BY 4.0  You are allowed to share it on your website with attribution.
In a Retail Media Network the retailer owns first-party data, that has been gathered from previous purchase data from his own customers.
The retailer offers interested advertisers (e.g. suppliers and brands) an advertising service, where they can utilize this data to create targeted campaigns for their products on the different digital channels owned by the retailer.
This is done in the form of different ad products, such as:
Sponsored Products
Sponsored Brands
Display Ads
Search Ads
Email Ads
Ad products may also include third-party channels that partner with the retailer, such as streaming networks, and they could also include in-store display ads at the retailer’s brick & mortar stores.
When the customer sees the ad on the retailer’s property and completes a purchase, data from this order gets fed back into the ad network, and used to optimize future campaigns.
A Different Business Model
Retail Media Networks represent a great opportunity for retailers to tweak their traditional retail business model , and add more revenue streams, using its own existing properties.
This is one of the numerous ways a retail business can grow its top line and bottom line, as ad businesses typically have higher margins than retailing.
For different growth strategies and tactics a retail business can use to grow, check out our Strategic Management and Retail Growth & Expansion Courses
RECOMMENDED COURSE
RETAIL GROWTH & EXPANSION
This course builds on the strategic management course , and goes deeper into the different growth strategies and alternative ways to grow a retail business.
LEARN MORE
Since this is a different business model, and a different industry altogether, retailers that want to enter this field need to first understand the dynamics of this industry, and the different capabilities and resources needed to establish a successful digital advertising arm, that can compliment their primary retail business, and not conflict with it.
For example, digital advertising requires a data infrastructure that enables the measurement of campaigns’ effectiveness by connecting purchase data to campaigns.
The business model of advertising also has a different sales model, which is B2B sales, and that’s completely different from the B2C sales model retailers are used to.
Additionally, the B2B sales account managers will be interacting with the same suppliers the buyers are interacting with, so some guidelines need to be established, in order to prevent any conflicts between different stakeholders.
RECOMMENDED COURSE
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT
Learn about the different strategies available for each company, based on a systematic strategic analysis process.
LEARN MORE
Top Retail Media Networks
The top retail media networks include:
Amazon Ads
Walmart Connect
Roundel by Target
Benefits of Retail Media Networks
There are many benefits for retail media networks, and all these have driven suppliers and brands to adopt them and increase their ad spend on them.
Buying Intent
Customers browsing through the retailer’s property could be at different stages in their buying journey, but they all have a high buying intent; i.e they are interested in buying this particular product and now could be comparing between alternatives or checking prices from different vendors or even ready to buy right now.
This gives the advertisers higher conversion rates, when compared to other channels that do not have such a high buying intent.
Brand-Safe
Compared to other advertising channels, such as social media, retail media networks are considered brand-safe.
There are no controversial topics discussed, or other negative influences that could affect the brand from a specific influencer or personality connected to the ad campaign.
First-Party Data
One of the biggest benefits of retail media networks are first-party data.
This has become particularly important for advertisers, due to the recent changes in privacy laws and the different platforms changing their policies to comply with the new laws and the rising concern for data sharing by third parties.
Closed Loop Reporting
Through retail media networks, advertisers can directly connect their ad spend to sales and measure conversion rate more accurately.
When a CPG brand advertises on TV or social media, it’s hard to know which proportion of sales came through which campaign or channel, as those brands sell through third-party retailers and don’t sell directly to consumers.
But when they advertise on a certain retail media network, they can directly see how many sales transactions resulted from each specific campaign, through their partnership with the retailer in this case, and this helps them create better campaigns in the future.
Read Also: Amazon Advertising Cost of Sales (ACoS) & Return on Ad Spend (ROAS)
The Opportunity for Retailers
Retail Media Networks are a huge opportunity for retailers, and that’s why it has been growing very fast.
As we have explained here, there are a lot of benefits from these networks to certain advertisers, such as CPG brands. And when you add to that the fact that, among the biggest advertisers in the world are several CPG brands, such as Proctor & Gamble, which has spent $8.1 billion in 2021 and Unilever, which has spent $4.7 billion, you will get to know how big this opportunity is for multi-brand retailers.
The challenge is to be able to adapt quickly, and build the right capabilities and infrastructure to seize such opportunity.
PROFESSIONAL RETAIL TRAINING
LEARN MORE
Thank you for reading this article on Retail Media Networks. We believe you will also find the following free resources useful:
How Retailers Make Money
Retail Business Model Canvas
Point of Purchase Display
Amazon Advertising Cost of Sales (ACoS)
Understanding Return on Ad Spend (ROAS)
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)
Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC)
FEATURED RESOURCES
Advertise Here
More Resources
Connect The Dots
THE NEXT LEVEL
If you want to manage a retail or ecommerce business end-to-end, or advance into senior management roles later in your career, the key skill to acquire is the ability to connect the dots .
Our training program is designed to help you do just that.
Learn More
LEARN
Menu
Retail Training Courses
Learning Paths
Store Manager Training
Courses for Buyers
Courses for Merchandisers
Courses for Category Managers
Courses for Retail Operations
Courses for Ecommerce
College Student Plan
MEMBERSHIP
Menu
Pricing
Cart
Log In
Members Area
My Membership
Member Support
COURSES
Menu
Course Catalogue
Meet Your Instructor
Learning Paths
Retail Math Course
Retail Budgeting Course
Retail Operations Course
Retail Growth Course
Retail Pricing Course
Merchandising Course
Leadership Course
COMPANY
Menu
About Us
Our Impact
Reviews
Advertise
Contact Us
FAQ
Copyright Permissions
Licensing
DMCA
RETAILDOGMA
The training resource for professional retailers
(302) 669 9027
Youtube
Linkedin
Envelope
Menu
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Return Policy
Log In
Copyright © 2026 Retail Dogma, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Retail Dogma content is made available for personal, non-commercial use. By accessing or using our content you agree to be bound by our Terms of Service . Commercial use of our content is prohibited without a licensing agreement and a prior written permission from Retail Dogma, Inc. For licensing & permissions contact us from here. The information made available on this website is for information purposes only and does not constitute legal, tax, financial or other professional advice provided by Retail Dogma, Inc. to you. Mentioned results are not typical and your results may significantly vary depending on education, experience, background, effort and application.
Retail Dogma, Inc. is a publisher and education solutions provider incorporated in Delaware, USA. Retail Dogma owns RDACADEMY™, a training program specifically designed for mid to senior-level retail professionals.
Scroll to Top
