URL_FUENTE: https://www.shopify.com/blog/live-shopping
Live Shopping: What It Is and Livestream Selling Steps (2026) - Shopify Skip to Content
Solutions
By business model
B2C for enterprise
B2B for enterprise
Retail for enterprise
Payments for enterprise
By ways to build
Platform overview
Shop Pay
By outcome
Growth solutions
Shopify
Platform for entrepreneurs & SMBs
Plus
A commerce solution for growing digital brands
Enterprise
Solutions for the world’s largest brands
Customers
Customer Stories
Everlane
Shop Pay speeds up checkout and boosts conversions
Brooklinen
Scales their wholesale business
ButcherBox
Goes Headless
Arhaus
Journey from a complex custom build to Shopify
Ruggable
Customizes Headless ecommerce to scale with Shopify
Carrier
Launches ecommerce sites 90% faster at 10% of the cost on Shopify
Dollar Shave Club
Migrates from a homegrown platform and cuts tech spend by 40%
Lull
25% Savings Story
Allbirds
Omnichannel conversion soars
Shopify
Platform for entrepreneurs & SMBs
Plus
A commerce solution for growing digital brands
Enterprise
Solutions for the world’s largest brands
Resources
Why trust us
Leader in the 2024 Forrester Wave™: Commerce Solutions for B2B
Leader in the 2024 IDC B2C Commerce MarketScape vendor evaluation
A Leader in the 2025 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Digital Commerce
What we care about
Shop Component Guide
Shopify TCO Calculator
Mastering Global Trade: How Integrated Technology Drives Cross-Border Success
How we support you
Premium Support
Help Documentation
Professional Services
Technology Partners
Partner Solutions
Shopify
Platform for entrepreneurs & SMBs
Plus
A commerce solution for growing digital brands
Enterprise
Solutions for the world’s largest brands
Developers
Latest Innovations
Editions - Spring 2026
Tools & Integrations
Integrations
Hydrogen
Support & Resources
Shopify Developers
Documentation
Help Center
Changelog
Shopify
Platform for entrepreneurs & SMBs
Plus
A commerce solution for growing digital brands
Enterprise
Solutions for the world’s largest brands
Try Shopify
Get in touch
Get in touch
Blog
Enterprise ecommerce
Total cost of ownership (TCO)
Migrations
B2B Ecommerce
More Headless commerce
Announcements
Unified Commerce
See All topics
Search Type something you're looking for
Log in Get in touch
Powering commerce at scale
Speak with our team on how to bring Shopify into your tech stack
Get in touch Try Shopify
blog | Unified Commerce
Live Shopping: What It Is and Livestream Selling Steps (2026)
Live shopping is a powerful marketing lever to support your growth for many years to come. Here’s how to make the most of it as an ecommerce brand.
by Mina Son
On this page
On this page
What is live shopping?
How does live shopping work?
What are the benefits of tapping into live shopping?
How to start live shopping in 8 steps
Live-shopping platforms
Live shopping best practices and tips
Common mistakes to avoid
Future outlook of live shopping and market trends
Live shopping FAQ
Commerce moves fast. Shopify moves faster.
Try Shopify
Live shopping is here to stay.
After this trend took off in Asia on Alibaba’s Taobao Live , the live commerce hype is starting to play out in Western countries. While the format is clearly gaining ground—with the US market size projected to double to $67.8 billion in 2026—many brands still face real hurdles in executing it.
From platform maturity gaps to scalability questions that don't always map to Asian models, succeeding in the West requires balancing heavy resource requirements with product category limitations.
Live shopping blends the best of offline and online shopping, making a purchase more than a transaction: it’s engaging, fun, and can build long-term trust. Here’s what live shopping can do for your ecommerce business, how to get started, which platforms to consider, and tips to make your campaigns successful.
What is live shopping?
Live shopping is a livestream-based marketing strategy in which a host presents products, and viewers can buy them in real time.
Live shopping gives brands a chance to interact with their customers and target audience on their own sites and social channels, but that’s not the only way it happens. Influencers can also run livestreams, as can everyday people—thanks to platforms like Amazon Live and Poshmark’s Posh Shows.
Here’s an example of a YouTube live-shopping stream embedded in the live section of Nordstrom’s website:
An example of a live-shopping event by Pai Skincare. ( source )
Using live video to promote products and drive purchases isn’t new. Home Shopping Network pioneered a televised sales pitch for consumer products like home goods, beauty, and fashion in the 1980s, inviting viewers to call to order products they had just seen on their TV screens.
Today’s version isn’t much different—swap televisions for mobile phones, TV networks for social platforms, and “Call Now” hotlines for “Buy Now” buttons. The key elements of social selling are still the same: there’s a real-time feedback loop for buyers, including product reviews, demonstrations, and the opportunity to ask questions.
This online version of live shopping took off in China in the 2010s, and it hasn’t slowed since. In 2024, China’s live commerce market size was about CN¥5.8 trillion , and was projected to grow at an 18% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2024 through 2026.
Western countries aren’t there yet, but they’re catching up : 35% of shoppers in one survey reported that they have bought a product from a livestream shopping event like TikTok Live or Instagram Live Shopping.
There’s real opportunity in the live shopping strategy. Here’s what you need to know to take advantage of it.
How does live shopping work?
Live shopping is defined by three key factors:
It’s in a video format.
It’s happening in real time (as opposed to being prerecorded).
It points to products customers can buy (through links, tags, pinned comments, and other online elements).
Live-shopping events take place across social media, native platforms, or retailer sites. They feature hosts who demonstrate products and share expert tips in real time. Viewers can participate via live chat to ask questions and click onscreen links or pinned comments to buy items within the interface or on the brand's website.
The live-shopping format is currently dominated by the fashion and beauty industries, which together account for over 21.3% of live-shopping sales globally. These categories lead the charge because they rely on visual appeal and social proof.
What works and what doesn’t
To succeed in live shopping, you have to move past just selling and start connecting. Viewers tend to prefer a raw, unscripted "backstage pass" vibe over polished, high-gloss commercials.
By using live polls and Q&A’s, you can make your audience feel like they’re hanging out with you rather than the target of a sales pitch. To keep that momentum moving toward checkout , weave in immediate rewards like exclusive discount codes or quick “Buy now” reminders right after a strong demo.
Treating a stream like a rigid TV ad falls flat because it lacks the spontaneity people crave. It’s also a mistake to ignore mobile users: in 2023 about 60% of shoppers worldwide already shopped on their phones, and a landscape-oriented show can lose your audience fast. Finally, avoid the “one-and-done” trap; building community trust takes consistency, not just a one-off experiment.
One effective way to use live shopping is to revive underperforming products. By featuring items that aren't selling on your site, you can use the live format to provide the extra context or demo they might be missing. Seeing a product in action, along with real-time answers to common hesitations, can provide the nudge to turn a slow-moving item into a top seller.
What are the benefits of tapping into live shopping?
Live shopping is just one of several ways customers can shop online, along with online marketplaces, brand websites, social commerce, voice commerce, and more.
Plus, people across a number of countries agree they want to buy more products through this shopping format. Here’s why—and why you need to pay attention to livestream selling.
Better-informed, inspired, and engaged customers
Livestreaming packs a massive amount of product information into a short window, removing the friction that usually stalls a sale. Instead of making customers hunt for reviews or photos, you provide everything they need in minutes. This creates a powerful impulse-buying trigger: by answering every hesitation in real time, you move the customer from curiosity to checkout before they have a chance to second-guess the purchase.
Beyond information, you’re creating a sense of belonging. When viewers see hundreds of others liking the stream or asking questions, they experience social proof, the feeling that “if everyone else is here, this brand must be the real deal.” While exclusive discounts are the top draw, it’s this sense of being part of a “backstage” event that sparks the deep engagement that keeps customers around.
Higher conversion rates and more successful launches
Live shopping doesn't just increase traffic—it creates real-time urgency. By offering “live-only” deals or limited-edition drops, you leverage the fear of missing out (FOMO) to turn passive viewers into active buyers.
Take Tru Earth , an eco-friendly laundry detergent company. By utilizing this “buy it now or miss out” energy, Ryan McKenzie, Tru Earth’s cofounder, said live shopping helped them boost sales during a product launch.
“We saw a 20% increase in conversions during a recent product launch,” says Ryan. “The live-shopping event contributed to a significant chunk of the revenue for the day.”
Similarly, platforms like Buywith have reported increased conversions by 10x through these high-intensity experiences. Fashion retailer Printemps also taps into this by building a loyal audience. A recent case study shared by Bambuser sees more than 300,000 impressions at Printemps’ live events, 20% of the audience is returning viewers, and the events generate over 40% in sales for their partners.
Potential to become a long-term growth channel
The results suggest that live shopping isn't just a trend—it’s a repeatable growth channel. Regularly scheduled events build a base of repeat viewers, satisfying the human desire for consistency and community. Over half of livestream viewers now watch shoppable streams multiple times per week, treating them as much like entertainment as a shopping trip.
According to eMarketer , US livestream ecommerce sales grew nearly 50% in 2025 to $14.64 billion. The window to establish your brand is closing. That means the first-mover advantage is narrowing. In fact, TikTok livestreams drove 84% year-over-year sales growth for participating brands during Black Friday and Cyber Week 2025. For many brands, the time to leverage the power of the live crowd is now.
How to start live shopping in 8 steps
You can follow these steps to pilot your first live selling stream. The goal is to keep it simple, so you can learn from the experience and build on it in future event iterations:
1. Choose the products you want to promote
Start with no more than 10 products. Begin with your bestsellers or products from your most recent launch. This will help you build your messaging for the event when promoting it.
2. Pick a date, time, and length of your live shopping event
For your first live shopping session, avoid a popular shopping period like Black Friday and choose a lower-risk slot. Pick your time based on the primary time zone of your existing audience and customer base.
3. Select a format
Some examples include interviews with an expert or an influencer, a how-to tutorial (for example, a styling demo), or a behind-the-scenes format that showcases how you prepare orders for shipping. Prepare an outline of what you’ll cover based on the format and products you’ve picked.
4. Decide where you’ll host your event
YouTube is one of the simplest options, but we’ll get into a few more options in the next section. The key is to focus on only one option, instead of trying to stream to five platforms at once.
5. Promote your livestream selling event
Lean on your usual marketing channels to let your audience know when and where they can interact with your brand live, as well as what to expect from the event: its length, the discounts and bonuses you’ll offer, and the general format.
6. Develop your script
Write out a script that balances authentic storytelling with key talking points and product benefits. Build in "planned spontaneity" when answering viewer questions. Most importantly, don't save your call to action (CTA) for the end. Weave CTAs into moments of peak engagement, like right after a demo, to drive conversions while interest is highest.
7. Prepare your tech
Based on the event format you chose, make sure you have all the equipment you need, including a webcam, extra lighting, a tripod, and any apps you’ll use.
8. Post-event follow-up
After your stream ends, send a recap email to attendees that includes links to the products featured and any discount codes you mentioned. You can also add the items discussed to a special wishlist for logged-in customers to keep the momentum going. Don't forget to post the replay on your product pages, turning your live event into an evergreen asset that generates sales around the clock.
Live-shopping platforms
Tools for live shopping fall into one of three categories:
Social media platforms
Live-shopping tools for ecommerce brands
Live-shopping platforms
1. Social media platforms
This category features well-known social media platforms that have merged their livestreaming capabilities with ecommerce features.
In 2026, Meta made improvements to its live shopping experiences, giving businesses a faster, simpler and more engaging way to turn livestreams into real-time sales. Brands can use live video ads on Instagram to help high-intent audiences who might not otherwise discover them. On Facebook, Live Shopping tools now integrate with existing ads and Shops catalogs, so businesses can pin and showcase products during a livestream.
YouTube
As a Google brand, it’s no wonder YouTube leads the way with shopping capabilities. The barrier to entry is next to none, especially since YouTube has partnered with Shopify and made it easy for businesses to import products from their catalog.
An example of a live shopping event on YouTube. ( source )
TikTok
TikTok has established themselves as the crossover between entertainment and shopping. “TikTok made me buy it ” search has collected more than seven billion views, and the platform often gets credit (and blame) for selling out many products in record time.
If you’re in one of the countries where the TikTok Shop feature is available—as of 2026, that includes the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Ireland, Japan, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines, Mexico, Brazil—it’s worth testing.
Pinterest TV
Since launching Pinterest TV in 2021 , Pinterest has evolved from a niche creator space into a shoppable ecosystem with brands like Wayfair and NUDESTIX. Now, a partnership with Roku is bringing this experience to the big screen with the series Bring My Pinterest to Life . Premiering in March 2026, the show lets viewers go from watching a home transformation to buying the products featured onscreen with their remote or the Pinterest app.
This move into connected TV (CTV) is supported by Pinterest’s acquisition of tvScientific, giving advertisers the same performance metrics they use on social media for TV spots. By tapping into Gen Z’s preference for influencer-led expertise and testing features like direct-to-cart shoppable recipes with Walmart, Pinterest is turning passive inspiration into a full-funnel performance channel.
Pinterest TV ( source )
2. Live-shopping tools for ecommerce brands
These are tools that integrate with an ecommerce brand’s existing tech stack, like their ecommerce platform and website, so you can run live shopping sessions.
This isn’t an exhaustive list of options, but it’s a solid place to start:
Bambuser
Bambuser is a live video-shopping platform that lets you make existing videos shoppable or run interactive live shopping sessions. Along with a one-to-many event—a typical livestream format—you can also use it to run one-on-one shopping sessions with individual customers.
Bambuser serves retailers both big and small, including Bloomingdale’s, Pai Skincare, and HUGO BOSS. Shopify businesses can integrate Bambuser into their stores .
Bambuser’s one-to-many product. ( source )
Now Live
Now Live is a live-shopping software built for Shopify stores that lets customers browse and buy from a live video using a checkout process they already know and trust.
Channelize.io
Channelize.io is a live-shopping solution trusted by brands like Kiehl’s, Dermalogica, Tatcha, and Giorgio Armani. Channelize.io stands out by promoting upcoming live shopping sessions on both its website and its social media channels.
Shopify businesses like Three Ships Beauty love Channelize.io. “In our first one-hour event, we garnered over 350 orders from high-LTV customers. Using Channelize.io is now a pillar of our marketing strategy—we promote an event for every product launch and large promo,” reads the review by Three Ships Beauty on the Channelize.io + Shopify page.
Emplifi
Emplifi offers both one-to-one and one-to-many live-shopping solutions, alongside several other social media and social commerce features. It serves brands like Pandora, HP, and Marks & Spencer.
During a livestream, businesses can choose to take one-to-one video calls with viewers who need more assistance during their shopping journey.
The Emplifi platform ( source )
3. Live shopping platforms
Finally, we have live-shopping platforms, which are accessible to everyone, from consumers who want to share their love for products to influencers and brands.
What makes live-shopping platforms different from live-shopping tools is discoverability: customers can browse dozens of live shows and potentially find your brand without depending on your marketing efforts to reach them.
Let’s take a look at some of the most popular live-shopping apps and platforms.
Whatnot
Whatnot is a global live commerce marketplace where people buy, sell, and grow their businesses, combining the trust and energy of in-person shopping with the reach and ease of ecommerce. Sellers can explore hundreds of categories to reach a passionate audience and build real-time connections with shoppers, driving instant sales and fostering brand loyalty.
Shopify businesses can connect their store catalog, so inventory is synced and automatically updated on both platforms. This makes it easier to manage sales, fulfillment, and tracking.
Sell live. Sell faster
Whatnot puts you in front of engaged buyers who are ready to purchase your products—live. Host regular shows, move products quickly, and build a community that keeps coming back.
Install Whatnot
Amazon Live
Amazon Live helps creators and brands reach and connect with shoppers. According to Amazon, you can livestream on the platform as long as you’re a US Professional Seller registered in Amazon Brand Registry, a US Vendor with an approved Amazon Store, or an Amazon Influencer.
In other words, if you sell your products on Amazon, you can give Amazon Live a try. Product carousels below the live video make it an immersive, familiar shopping experience.
Amazon Live example. ( source )
ShopShops
ShopShops is a livestream shopping app for fashion, beauty, and lifestyle products. The company works with both companies—brands, stores, and independent retailers—and hosts who run livestream shopping shows.
The global live ecommerce market size is expected to reach approximately $4,335.91 billion in 2030 , continuing rapid expansion of livestream commerce worldwide. Vertical live videos are the way to go on ShopShops, since the platform works as a mobile app.
ShopShops’ website. ( source )
Taobao
Taobao Live is considered the pioneer of “shoppertainment,” mixing live shows with a “see now, buy now” vibe. Unlike social media, where shopping often feels like an add-on, this is built right into Alibaba’s ecosystem. It’s seamless because you can add items to your cart and pay with Alipay without ever pausing or leaving the stream.
The crowd here is mostly Gen Z and millennials, with people in their late 20s and early 30s driving about 30% of sales . These shoppers aren't looking for polished celebrity commercials—they want authenticity. They’d much rather watch a raw, unscripted demo from a factory worker, a farmer, or a trusted expert. And since the whole app is designed for quick, one-handed scrolling, it’s perfect for the vast majority of users who shop entirely on their phones.
When it comes to the money side, Taobao runs on a performance-based model. Merchants usually set a commission rate depending on what they’re selling, starting around 0.6% of confirmed trade value for top-tier influencers and big launches. There’s no up-front fee just to go live, but most serious brands end up hiring “Tmall Partners” or agencies to help with professional studio setups and hosting.
Taobao homepage ( source )
TalkShopLive
TalkShopLive is a video commerce platform. With a built-in point-of-sale feature included within the video player, it makes selling and shopping seamless.
Big retailers like Walmart, artists like Kelly Clarkson and Ed Sheeran, and businesses like La Bella Donna all take advantage of TalkShopLive’s capabilities. Viewers can find tutorials, limited-edition products, and shopping guides throughout the platform and connect with their favorite brands and creators.
The best thing? You can integrate TalkShopLive right into your Shopify store.
La Bella Donna live shopping event on TalkShopLive. ( source )
NTWRK
NTWRK is a livestreaming video commerce platform built with Gen Z and millennial shoppers in mind.
The layout of NTWRK’s website is designed to direct visitors toward the product categories they’re most interested in, like shoes, art, or accessories. Both individuals and brands can apply to sell through NTWRK.
NTWRK’s show categories. ( source )
Live shopping best practices and tips
Now let’s look at a few brands already taking advantage of live shopping.
Offer exclusive bonuses and incentives to live viewers
FOMO is a powerful motivator for taking action. When it comes to live shopping, it pays to give live viewers a unique offer—one they can’t get anywhere else. This will make them feel rewarded and respected for showing up and giving you their time and energy.
This unique offer can be a discount code, a free product with an order, a limited-edition product, or a giveaway—it’s up to you.
For example, POPFLEX pinned a comment with a discount code for viewers watching a live event leading up to Black Friday:
Discount code for live viewers during POPFLEX’s event. ( source )
Integrate live shopping with your loyalty program
If you run a loyalty program, merging it with your livestreams can deepen the shopping experience for your viewers. For example, when a logged-in customer joins your live shopping event, you could add the products you’ve mentioned to a special product wishlist in their account—or email them afterward with a recap.
The German drugstore dm utilizes this practice in its live-shopping campaigns. In the Croatian market, dm runs live shopping sessions a couple of times per month and limits viewing to people with a shopping account. During the livestreams, experts discuss the topic of the session, and viewers can see products related to that topic by tapping on a list in the corner.
What’s more, viewers who show up live receive a coupon that gives them extra points in their loyalty account if they end up making a purchase.
Show deep knowledge of your products and who they’re best for
A live shopping experience can give viewers the confidence to buy the right product for their needs. It’s what makes live shopping so powerful as a strategy.
The best way to generate this confidence is to be specific when talking about a product. Instead of using vague statements that can sound exaggerated, talk about real-life experiences or benefits that people want from the product.
For example, if you’re talking about an SPF cream, instead of “This is the best SPF you’ll ever try,” say, “This SPF will work great for people with oily skin who want a lightweight SPF formula under their foundation.”
You can see this in action in a livestream run by the jewelry brand Celeste Sol . In the livestream, the brand’s founder and CEO, Tiffany Joachim, says, “If you have any aversion to weight on your ears, this is a great piece, because it’s light as air. It’s not gonna hurt or disrupt any feelings you may have on your ears.”
In other words, she offered a clear solution to a specific problem.
Partner with influencers or celebrities your audience loves
It’s worth joining forces with a name that your target audience already loves.
First, your existing customers and followers are more likely to join because it gives them a chance to engage with that person. And second, you’ll expand your reach because the person you’re partnering with is likely to attract their audience to the livestream.
The person or people you’re partnering with for the live shopping event can range from nano-influencers to big industry names, celebrities, and even related brands that aren’t your direct competitors.
On Singles’ Day 2025, AliExpress UK demonstrated the power of influencer-led live shopping by partnering with TikTok creator Anna Williams to showcase Pop Mart collectibles . The impact was immediate, with Pop Mart sales on the platform surging 1,500% year over year in October and the brand on track to move 10,000 toys in a single week.
Source TikTok
This event highlights how celebrity or influencer participation can turn a niche hobby into a major revenue driver within the 2025 social commerce landscape. By blending high-profile hosts with real-time engagement, brands can achieve a quantified sales uplift that traditional digital ads simply can't match.
Prioritize authenticity and engagement
Finally, live shopping is as two-way as it gets for a marketing and sales channel. If all you care about is speaking and not listening, your livestreams won’t land the way you want them to.
HeftyBerry , a brand that sells handmade wreaths and interior decorations, used an authenticity-focused approach and generated over $50,000 in sales over 24 hours with live shopping.
“You need to prioritize authenticity and engagement above all else,” says Ilia Mundut, HeftyBerry’s founder and CEO. “By creating an interactive experience for customers where they can ask questions and provide feedback in real time, you create a sense of community around your brand that drives loyalty and repeat business.”
Take it from Printemps , a historic French department store that wanted to stay ahead of the curve by creating live shopping opportunities to connect with their customers. “We were committed to using internal skills to make live shopping an effective, long-term revenue- and community-building tool,” Maud Funaro, Printemps’ chief transformation officer, said in a live-shopping case study .
Printemps wants viewers and customers to feel comfortable with the experience, so they embedded live shopping right into their website. They crowdsourced their audience to vote for the timing of the livestreams, and the audience then gets to learn from the Printemps’ personal shoppers whom they already know and love.
Printemps’ live-shopping page. ( source )
Common mistakes to avoid
Getting live shopping right takes more than just hitting "record"—it’s about finding that sweet spot between solid technical prep, real storytelling, and a mobile-first approach. To make sure your next event actually connects and converts, you'll want to avoid the usual traps like skimping on production or treating the whole thing as a one-off experiment.
Other common mistakes include:
Underestimating production and support: A smooth event requires more than just a quick post; you need high-speed internet, professional lighting, and a dedicated moderator to handle real-time questions.
Being too rigid or “salesy”: Many brands fail by treating streams like rigid TV ads. Viewers crave authenticity and a backstage pass vibe, so success usually depends on a host who can be spontaneous and relatable while following a plan.
Ignoring platform differences: Western platforms aren't as integrated as those in China, so shopping can feel clunky. It’s vital to choose your platform wisely and design for mobile first, as more online spending shifts to mobile devices every year.
Poor product selection: Not everything translates well to video. Fit-dependent items like jeans can be tricky if you don't clearly demonstrate their movement and drape to help viewers feel confident in their purchase.
Missing engagement triggers: To keep the energy high, you should weave in call-to-action moments and exclusive deals throughout the stream rather than waiting until the end.
Treating it as one-and-done: Building community trust requires consistency. Don’t forget a post-event follow-up to recap featured products and maintain sales momentum.
Future outlook of live shopping and market trends
The global live commerce market is no longer a niche experiment. It’s on track to hit nearly $78 billion by 2030 . China remains the undisputed leader, accounting for 78% of the market thanks to a "super-app" ecosystem where entertainment, payments, and rapid logistics are integrated into daily life.
While the West is catching up through social-first platforms like TikTok and brand-owned apps from brands like Zara, the focus remains largely on entertainment and high-income shoppers. Meanwhile, India has emerged as a powerhouse , recently surpassing the US as the world’s second-largest online shopper base, driven by a massive mobile-first population and frictionless UPI payments.
What sets these markets apart is how they bridge the gap between browsing and buying. In China and India, live shopping is a vital tool for reaching beyond urban centers, offering personalized, regional-language support that builds trust where static sites can't.
In contrast, US and European brands are still navigating fragmented regulations and platform maturity gaps. However, as one-click checkout becomes the global standard, the shift from social trend to retail cornerstone is inevitable. Companies that master this real-time urgency are expected to see up to 25% top-line growth.
Wrapping up live shopping
Your customers may be craving more connection, more value from your products, and a more immersive experience with your brand—and live shopping can provide exactly that.
The future of ecommerce is about making online shopping more seamless and connected across channels than ever before. Whether you choose to livestream on your own or through partnerships, live shopping can drive engagement, growth, and long-term results for your ecommerce business.
The authenticity, personalization, and real conversations with your customers that come with live shopping lead to more trust, more sales, and more loyalty. It’s worth giving live shopping a chance.
Browse the Shopify App Store and check out which apps can help you start livestreaming today.
Build your dream online store today
Join the ranks of the world’s best online stores with Shopify’s powerful tools and features. With the highest-converting checkout, Shopify stores sell more products, lower your costs, and save you time.
Learn more
Read more
Social Commerce Examples, Features, and Platforms to Uplevel Your Business
What is Social Commerce? Trends and Key Insights for 2024
10 Best Social Commerce Platforms and Apps in 2025
Social Commerce Strategy: Improve Your Social Selling With These 9 Best Practices
Instagram Ecommerce: Strategies & Examples (2025)
Global Ecommerce Statistics: Trends to Guide Your Store in 2025
The State of the Ecommerce Fashion Industry: Statistics, Trends, and Strategies to Use in 2025
The Ultimate Instagram Sales Funnel: A Step-by-Step Guide to Boosting Conversions
Ecommerce Influencer Marketing: A Complete Guide (2025)
How to Increase Return on Ad Spend (ROAS) in 2025
Live shopping FAQ
What is live commerce?
Online live shopping is a marketing strategy that combines live video with interactive shopping features. It allows viewers to browse and purchase products in real time during a livestream. This approach merges entertainment with ecommerce, letting customers seamlessly check out while engaging with the host.
What is a live sale?
A live sale is an online livestreaming event during which one or more hosts run product demonstrations or tutorials and invite viewers to leave comments, ask questions, and purchase products. Live sale events often drive higher conversion rates, lower return rates, and a highly engaged customer base.
What platforms support live shopping?
Live shopping is supported by social media platforms like YouTube, TikTok Shop, and Pinterest TV. Brands can also use ecommerce-integrated tools like Bambuser, Now Live, Livescale, and Emplifi to host sessions directly on their own websites. Alternatively, dedicated standalone platforms such as Amazon Live, Shopify Live, Taobao Live, and TalkShopLive provide specialized environments for live selling.
How does live shopping work?
Live shopping has three elements: it takes place in video format, happens in real time, and links to products near the video screen. It can take place on social media, on live-shopping platforms, or on the merchant’s website.
Livestream viewers can learn about products, ask questions about them through comments, seamlessly check out, and often receive a special discount or offer as a reward for watching live.
by Mina Son
Published on Mar 13, 2026
Share article
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
by Mina Son
Published on Mar 13, 2026
The latest in commerce
Get news, trends, and strategies for unlocking new growth.
Enter email Subscribe
Subscribe
By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.
popular posts
Enterprise commerce How to Choose an Enterprise Ecommerce Platform for Your Scaling Store TCO How to Calculate Total Cost of Ownership for Enterprise Software Migrations Ecommerce Replatforming: A Step-by-Step Guide To Migration B2B Ecommerce What Is B2B Ecommerce? Types + Examples
Unified commerce for the world's most ambitious brands
Learn More
popular posts
Direct to consumer (DTC) The Complete Guide to Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) Marketing (2025) Tips and strategies Ecommerce Personalization: Benefits, Examples, and 7 Tactics for 2025 Unified commerce How To Sell on Multiple Channels Without the Logistical Headache (2025) Enterprise ecommerce Composable Commerce: What It Means and Is It Right for You?
popular posts
Enterprise commerce
How to Choose an Enterprise Ecommerce Platform for Your Scaling Store
TCO
How to Calculate Total Cost of Ownership for Enterprise Software
Migrations
Ecommerce Replatforming: A Step-by-Step Guide To Migration
B2B Ecommerce
What Is B2B Ecommerce? Types + Examples
Direct to consumer (DTC)
The Complete Guide to Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) Marketing (2025)
Tips and strategies
Ecommerce Personalization: Benefits, Examples, and 7 Tactics for 2025
Unified commerce
How To Sell on Multiple Channels Without the Logistical Headache (2025)
Enterprise ecommerce
Composable Commerce: What It Means and Is It Right for You?
The latest in commerce Get news, trends, and strategies for unlocking unprecedented growth.
Email here Subscribe
Subscribe
Unsubscribe anytime. By entering your email, you agree to receive marketing emails from Shopify.
Popular
Headless commerce
Headless Commerce: Complete Guide for Businesses (2026)
Apr 28, 2026
Growth strategies
How To Increase Conversion Rate: 14 Tactics for 2025
Oct 5, 2023
Growth strategies
7 Discount Strategy Tactics for Retailers in 2026
Ecommerce Operations Logistics
Third-Party Logistics (3PL): What It Is and How It Works
Ecommerce Operations Logistics
Ecommerce Returns: Average Return Rate and How to Reduce It
Industry Insights and Trends
Global Ecommerce Statistics and Trends (2026)
Customer Experience
Top Fashion Brands: 15 Storytelling Examples
Growth strategies
SEO Product Descriptions: 7 Tips To Optimize Your Product Pages
Powering commerce at scale Speak with our team on how to bring Shopify into your tech stack.
Get in touch Try Shopify
Shopify
What is Shopify?
Shopify Editions
Careers
Investors
Newsroom
Sustainability
Ecosystem
Developer Docs
Theme Store
App Store
Partners
Affiliates
Resources
Blog
Compare Shopify
Guides
Courses
Free Tools
Changelog
Support
Shopify Help Center
Community Forum
Hire a Partner
Service Status
USA | English Australia
English
Canada
English
Hong Kong SAR
English
India
English
Indonesia
English
Ireland
English
Malaysia
English
New Zealand
English
Nigeria
English
Philippines
English
Singapore
English
South Africa
English
UK
English
USA
English
USA | English Choose a region & language
Australia
English
Canada
English
Hong Kong SAR
English
India
English
Indonesia
English
Ireland
English
Malaysia
English
New Zealand
English
Nigeria
English
Philippines
English
Singapore
English
South Africa
English
UK
English
USA
English
Terms of Service
Legal
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Your Privacy Choices
